spawn dfrotz -m -s 123 SoFar.z8
Using normal formatting.
Loading SoFar.z8.
Hot, foul, and dark. How did indoor theater become so fashionable? Well enough
in spring rain or winter, but not in the thick, dead afternoon of high summer.
And though  looks very fine, shining with electric moonslight in
the enclosed gloom, you're much more aware of being crammed in neck-by-neck with
your sweaty fellow citizens.

Damn the crowd, in truth: your mood was hot, foul, and dark when you sat down.
Aessa was supposed to meet you here. She's made excuses before, and you don't
think about what it might mean. Try not to think, rather. Just watch the story.
One of your favorites. But it's miserably hot, and you just aren't caught up in
the play...


An Interactive Catharsis
Copyright 1996 by Andrew Plotkin.
(First-time players should type "about".)
Release 6 / Serial number 961218 / Inform v1502 Library 5/12
Standard interpreter 1.1
occurrences)



occurrences)

 (on the bench)
If nothing else, you have a good seat. The stage is only a few rows to the
north. People are jammed on benches in every direction; you think the aisle is
somewhere to the west.

The play is into the final act. Rito has finally found out about Imita's affair,
and he stalks the stage, whipping voice and hands about himself. A footfall
behind him; he turns, and sees Imita. She backs a step at the force of his gaze.

>about
 is copyright 1996 by Andrew Plotkin. It may be copied, distributed, and
played freely.

This is a shortish-to-medium-sized game. More than a short story, less than a
full-length novel. Its rating is "cruel." It is possible to make mistakes which
will prevent you from winning. Sometimes common sense will serve to avoid such
mistakes; sometimes insight is necessary; sometimes neither will help. Save
often, and keep your old saved games.

Do not expect  to be anything like  It's not.

This game was created using the Inform adventure development system, which was
created by Graham Nelson. You can get Inform, as well as other text adventures,
from the Interactive Fiction archive:
   ftp://ftp.gmd.de/if-archive/

This game is free. But if you feel like sending me money, I won't refuse. If you
feel like sending me comments or bug reports, I'll be ecstatic. As of the end of
1996, I am at

   erkyrath@netcom.com

   Andrew Plotkin
   7529 Murray Hill Rd. #322
   Columbia, MD 21046
   USA

Further acknowledgements:

   Beta testing: Michael "The Inescapable" Kinyon, C. E. Forman, Neil Demause,
Jools Arnold, Magnus Olsson, Gareth Rees.
   Omega testing: Kai Hesse, Lucian Smith, Jon Conrad, Mike Phillips, Matthew
MacKenzie, Paul C. Trauth, David Auerbach, Michael Haralambous, Stephen Granade,
Dylan Thurston, Dan Shiovitz, Admiral Jota, Mikko Vuorinen, Dylan O'Donnell,
Robert Rendell, Joe Mason, Marnix Klooster, Avrom Faderman.
   Extra ideas: My brain. (Honest, it comes up with stuff all on its own.
Sometimes it doesn't tell me the reasons until days later. Then I scream.)
   Dinners of some relevance: Nikki, Jen, Aleecia, Jody.
   Surreal confidence: Tom.
   DJ'ing folk music on the radio for five hours every Saturday night, thus
providing me with prime working atmosphere: Mary Cliff.
   Playing incredibly funny folk music, both on the radio and live: The Foremen.



This game is dedicated. (For real.)

>stand up
You push yourself to your feet. Naturally, your spot on the bench instantly
vanishes in the crush.

The players continue....

   
   How come you, harlot? Dare you come this way,
   your skin yet dark with Tato's shadow's stain?

   
   Young lord, I will not kneel. And shadowed dark,
   or white with rays of moon or sun or moon,
   my flesh is mine. Or nearly so; I find --

   
   Say on! What more has hated Tato done?

You shake your head, trying to net your straying thoughts, and catch a flash of
copper hair. A few rows back, by the aisle -- Aessa couldn't have shown up and
 seen you, could she? She wouldn't be avoiding you.



>west

As you start to push through the crowd, you find a knee jammed unpleasantly in
your path. You manage not to trip. The owner of the knee mumbles pungently, jams
it out of your way (into someone else's), and curtly gestures you to pass.

   
   Oh, do not hate. For dazzled though she was,
   Imita's put him by; he's naught and gone --
   But nearly, for she carries Tato's son.

   
   She -- you -- you say -- aah!

   (He rushes from the stage.)

>west

You push through the crowd...


You are adrift in a sea of knees. People squirm to give you room, glowering
politely around you as they try to watch the play. The aisle is nearby, west,
and your seat is far in to the east.
occurrences)

Imita turns and pleads her dilemma to the audience: "What scourge, what scourge
I bear, from what red star / So near to happiness, and yet so far?" She is in
despair; but this whispered soliloquy is soon interrupted by voices rising in
the wings. Rito, in a fury, backs Tato onto the stage.

You can no longer see Aessa, if you did at all. "Shorten it, fat-ass," says
someone behind you, sullenly.

>west

As you start to push through the crowd, someone pushes through even harder in
the opposite direction.

   
   Stench of the grave on the day of your birth
   Shadows the shape first your eyes ever saw
   Curdled with gall was the milk on your lips
   Foul luck...

   
                Enough!

   
                        It is blood I will have,
   Good red to flood the black ebb of your luck.

>west
You push through the crowd...


It's actually harder to navigate here in the aisle. People are sitting on the
steps, leaning up against the wall, and in some places perched on the gas-
lights. The aisle extends north and south from here, but towards the stage it's
even more crowded. Your seat is somewhere deep in the benches to the east.

   
   I did not look to draw this moment here;
   Imita's choice has whipped my tongue and soul;
   I would withdraw. But if my mistress' word
   Would leash me, yet the wolfish howl will stir
   The blood of any hound. Attend thy sword!

   
   Cease you this play --

   
                            In the poisonous marl
   And the tangling thorn fell the step you first took...



   (Rito draws as well, and Tato begins circling him, still intoning the
ritual.)

"Shorten it, fat-ass," grumbles someone behind you, grouchily.

>south

As you start to push through the crowd, a child darts unrepentantly under your
feet.

 The pure tone of steel against steel. It comes again, and again faster;
and then Rito and Tato rush at each other in a fury of chimes, in harmony. The
sounds come from off-stage, of course, not from the swords. That's the way it's
done. Melody weaves into the ringing, counterpoint to the flow of the fight --
falter, recover, the upper hand lost and gained -- and two men and two swords
flicker in electric light.

>south
You push through the crowd...


You're halfway up the aisle on the west side of the theater. It's still full of
people, but you can maneuver north and south.

Rito gains enough breath between attacks to declaim an insult or three. "War-
rat, peace-pup / Love's-fool / Bright-tongue, limp slug..." Tato leaps for him
again, another bell-jangle of motion. Dancing, even yet, Rito falls back.

   
   Love's-fool? You think I'd spare my heart
   To she whose glance you melt to see?
   I touched her but to touch your throat,
   Your softer foot that I could sting --

Rito cannot even speak; the pain and horror are all in his eyes. And then they
are in Tato's eyes too, and the spear that jerks in Tato's back is barely an
afterthought. He jolts forward a step, tries to catch himself on Rito's wrapped
velvets. But Rito backs, still silent, and Tato lands on his knees; reaches
again; and falls.



Imita, spear-hand still outflung, is on her knees as well.

"Shorten it, long-muck," grumbles someone behind you, grouchily.

You feel the faintest cool breath of air.

>feel air

It's gone, and there it is again -- a touch of cool air. You turn your head from
side to side, feeling... it seems to be coming from a crack in the west wall.

Wait. Wait. What's ever cool in this suffocating summer heat? It comes again,
slight, smoky, deep with autumn. Impossible.

Rito moves forward, slowly, around the shape that lies before him. He draws
Imita to her feet. She gazes at his face, with not a flicker at the dark wet
that stains his velvets. (And you don't even wonder at the players'-craft that
makes it so. The stage is gone; their faces are the moment.)

   
   Ah, my love. Can you forgive me?

   
   How can I deny you? There is nothing to forgive.

>south

You push through the crowd...


You've struggled your way to the top of the aisle; the theater stretches away to
the north and east. Everything east is a solid mass of benches and people, of
course, and more playgoers are lined up along the back wall. Wide doors to the
south lead outside.

The audience sighs, released. The rest of the play is accomplished with
commendable speed: wedding flowers, declarations of passion, bells and drums.
Tato's corpse is carried reverently away; and the procession follows.

As the stage empties, someone behind you begins to clap.

"Out of the light, dug-shadow," growls someone behind you, angrily.

>south

You escape into the searing light of the high summer afternoon. The air is still
oppressively hot, but at least it's fresh, and the theater portico gives a bit
of shade.


People flock here, in the shade of the colonaded portico, talking and drinking
sharp beer. The main entrance to the theater is back north; the street runs
bright and dusty to the south, and the crowded portico continues to the west.

>west


More people are relaxing here, perhaps because of the kegman who sells his beer
under the theater portico. The main street bakes in sunlight to the south; the
front of the theater continues to the north, adorned by some decorative potted
shrubs.

You feel the faintest cool breath of air.

>feel air

It's gone, and there it is again -- a touch of cool air. You turn your head from
side to side, feeling... it seems to be coming from the direction of the potted
shrubs.

>examine shrubs

You know nothing about gardening. Whatever the shrubs are, they're tall, leafy,
and not quite dead of the heat.

You notice a doorway, half-hidden behind the shrubs.

A couple of people nearby are discussing the moons. That's right; tonight is the
night that the astronomers have been going on about. You'll have to be sure to
watch. Snuggled in a blanket, ideally... if you ever find Aessa.

Again, you feel that cool thread of air across your face.

>north

Ignoring the sign, you slip inside.


This is obviously a service hallway for the theater. You are surrounded by
crates and arbitrary stacks of paper, and pieces of scenery lean against the
rough planking walls of the hallway to the north. Light glares in from the
south.

The coolness touches your face again.

>feel air

The cool air is definitely coming from the north, up the hallway.

>north


The hallway ends at a heavy door to the north, and a storage room opens west.
The wooden planking of the walls is old and unpainted; you notice a narrow crack
to the east. The heavy door is closed.

Sharp voices filter out through the door. They are too muffled to make out more
than the tone of anger.

>west


Or perhaps ex-storage, since the room is almost bare. A small dirty window to
the west admits bright beams, but they fall across only the floor and a battered
cabinet against the north wall. The doorway lies to the east.

The air here is rich with autumn, brisk and cool. It's impossible, absurd.

>open cupboard

You swing open the door. The cabinet is mostly empty; bare shelves and hooks and
a scatter of dust. But on the top shelf rests an unusual, off-square wooden box,
its rich polish at odds with the battered panels that surround it.

>examine it

A cabinet, chipped and stained, stands against the wall. Sunlight brings a
tattered, hopeful glow out of the old wood, but shadow falls behind. The cabinet
stands open; an unusual wooden box rests on the top shelf.

>get box

Taken.

The air swirls briskly around you.

>examine shadow

Blackness lies behind the cabinet. Opaque... in this brightly lit room, no
shadow should be so thick.

As you step back from the cabinet, the shadow  A sunbeam might shine off
crystal to paint the whole world white for one angle of an instant; so this
shadow widens into a gulf beneath black and wider than everything. Then you move
a fraction farther, and it is only a line of too-black behind chipped wood.

>enter it
The shadow  again as you set foot to it. The cabinet is to your left and
the wall to your right, never mind the space that isn't there between them, and
then never mind anything because blackness has taken the world, never mind,
never world, not even you, never you --

[Hit any key.]


-- And then daylight smacks you in the behind, ordinary as a dirt road.


The sky is almost violet, infinitely distant -- you've never seen such a sky,
and without the haze of metallic heat that summer should have. But the wind is
sharp and chilly, and the trees nearby are a quilt of orange, red, and gold.

Beneath you the road is old, filled with weeds and ragged moss; dirt shows only
in patches. To the south, the track is choked with trees, as it runs into the
fringes of an autumn forest. It continues the other way, though, towards an
immense stone wall that hems the northern horizon.

>north

You stroll for a while towards the wall.


A worn stub of brick juts up here, by the road. It's no more than twice your
height; but scattered bricks in the weeds attest to an imposing chimney in time
past. Whatever building the chimney served is now just rotted scraps of wood and
a few stony ridges, and some mounds off to the west. The road continues towards
the wall north, and the distant forest south.

>west


This was probably a building once. Those ridges lie straight and at right
angles; the rotted logs are tumbled too close to be natural. Nothing but field,
now. A few mounds by the foundation were probably something once; although a
bright vine on one catches your notice. The broken chimney to the east marks the
old road.

>examine vine

The vine is actually a muddy color, but the leaves are broad and streaked with
bright yellow. Uncounted fine tendrils root deeply into the mound. A single fat
red pod, about the size of your fist, clings to the vine at one point.

>get pod

The pod gives ripely when you touch it. It snaps free, and a drop of oily fluid
leaks from the stem.

>east


A worn stub of brick juts up here, by the road. It's no more than twice your
height; but scattered bricks in the weeds attest to an imposing chimney in time
past. Whatever building the chimney served is now just rotted scraps of wood and
a few stony ridges, and some mounds off to the west. The road continues towards
the wall north, and the distant forest south.

>examine chimney

Most of the chimney is fallen; only a ragged angle remains, casting its shadow
far out into the afternoon weeds. Weathered bricks lie uncaring in the grass
below. They've been there a while, and they're not moving soon.

>examine shadow

The chimney's shadow is thick as black silk. Suspicious, you shift your line of
vision, and watch the darkness deepen into a gulf, and narrow again to lie
calmly on the grass.

>north

You stroll for a while, up to the wall.


The wall looms here, streaked gold with sideways sunlight. The finely-etched
stone blocks are each wider than you can reach; they file at least forty feet
above you. The gate... would be huge anywhere else. It's a square of dark wood
half the wall's height, sealing the road. The road runs from the gate towards
the distant forest in the south.

On either side of the gate, only a few feet from the wall, stands a massive
metal pillar. Each is almost as wide as you are tall, and they reach nearly to
the top of the wall.

>west

You approach the base of the west pillar.


You are at the foot of the west pillar; it and the wall lean dangerously against
the violet sky. The road and the closed gate lie east.

>examine pillar

(the west pillar)
The pillar is almost as wide as you are tall, and reaches nearly to the top of
the wall. It's badly streaked and patched with corrosion. You can even see
yellowish vines near the top, crawling down the sides and out along the cable
which runs to the gate-track. There's a small hatch outlined in rust at the
pillar's base.

>squeeze pod on hatch

You crush the pod; oil soaks down over the rusty hinges. It seems to evaporate
almost instantly, but a slight glistening remains which bodes well.

>open hatch

More rust flakes down, and the hinges sound like they're grinding your bones,
but you manage to lever the hatch open.

The pillar sways just a bit. It must be even more corroded than it looks. And
then you hear a faint snap, followed by a rumbling high above.

The rumbling noise rapidly grows louder.

>wait

Time passes.

There is a concussive  within the pillar. Then -- silence, broken only a
faint rattling which rapidly dies away.

>enter pillar

(the west pillar)


The pillar rises through hollow dimness, lit only by the daylight pouring
through the hatch at your feet. Far above, a few needles of light show that the
top of the pillar is decaying as badly as the rust-eaten walls around you. A set
of narrow rungs ascends.

A dull metal slab rests on the ground in the shaft, making this an uncomfortable
squeeze. It's almost as broad as the shaft, and taller than you.

>up

You scurry easily up the ladder. The pillar sways slightly to your movement.


You cling to the rungs at the top of the metal shaft. The walls are miserably
corroded, and there are several rust-edged holes around you. The roof above you
is solid, but it is not metal; it's an odd black substance. It's also heavily
overgrown with yellowish vines that crawl in and out of the pillar.

A large metal pulley is suspended here, on an axle that runs across the pillar
just below the ceiling. A cable runs into the pillar, around the pulley, and
descends a few feet to a frayed end.

>get pods

Carefully, you pull all three pods from the vine.

>down

You scurry easily down the ladder.


The pillar rises through hollow dimness, lit only by the daylight pouring
through the hatch at your feet. Far above, a few needles of light show that the
top of the pillar is decaying as badly as the rust-eaten walls around you. A set
of narrow rungs ascends.

A dull metal slab rests on the ground in the shaft, making this an uncomfortable
squeeze. It's almost as broad as the shaft, and taller than you.

>out

You worm your way out to sunlight.


You are at the foot of the west pillar; it and the wall lean dangerously against
the violet sky. The road and the closed gate lie east.

A small hatch stands open at the pillar's base.

>east


The wall looms here, streaked gold with sideways sunlight. The finely-etched
stone blocks are each wider than you can reach; they file at least forty feet
above you. The gate... would be huge anywhere else. It's a square of dark wood
half the wall's height, sealing the road. The road runs from the gate towards
the distant forest in the south.

On either side of the gate, only a few feet from the wall, stands a massive
metal pillar. Each is almost as wide as you are tall, and they reach nearly to
the top of the wall.

>east

You approach the base of the east pillar.


You are at the foot of the east pillar; it and the wall lean dangerously against
the violet sky. The road and the closed gate lie west.

>squeeze pod on hatch

You crush the pod; oil soaks down over the rusty hinges. It seems to evaporate
almost instantly, but a slight glistening remains which bodes well.

>open hatch

More rust flakes down, and the hinges sound like they're grinding your bones,
but you manage to lever the hatch open.

>enter pillar

(the east pillar)


The pillar rises through hollow dimness, lit only by the daylight pouring
through the hatch at your feet. A set of narrow rungs ascends the rust-touched
wall of the shaft.

>up

You climb quickly up the ladder. As you approach the top, you find that you must
squeeze around a solid metal shape that hangs in the shaft.


You cling to the rungs at the top of the metal shaft. The walls are somewhat
corroded, mostly beneath a small hole in the north side of the pillar. The roof
above you is solid, but it is not metal; it's an odd black substance.

A large metal pulley is suspended here, on an axle that runs across the pillar
just below the ceiling. A cable runs into the pillar, around the pulley, and
descends to a dull slab of metal which fills much of the shaft just below you.

>squeeze pod on wheel

You crush the pod; oil soaks down over the pulley. It seems to evaporate almost
instantly, but the joint and axle now glisten slightly in the dim light.

>down

You climb quickly down the ladder.


The pillar rises through hollow dimness, lit only by the daylight pouring
through the hatch at your feet. A set of narrow rungs ascends the rust-touched
wall of the shaft.

>out

You worm your way out to sunlight.


You are at the foot of the east pillar; it and the wall lean dangerously against
the violet sky. The road and the closed gate lie west.

A small hatch stands open at the pillar's base.

>west


The wall looms here, streaked gold with sideways sunlight. The finely-etched
stone blocks are each wider than you can reach; they file at least forty feet
above you. The gate... would be huge anywhere else. It's a square of dark wood
half the wall's height, sealing the road. The road runs from the gate towards
the distant forest in the south.

On either side of the gate, only a few feet from the wall, stands a massive
metal pillar. Each is almost as wide as you are tall, and they reach nearly to
the top of the wall.

>west

You approach the base of the west pillar.


You are at the foot of the west pillar; it and the wall lean dangerously against
the violet sky. The road and the closed gate lie east.

A small hatch stands open at the pillar's base.

>push pillar

(the west pillar)
You heave at the pillar; a faint sway encourages you. You lean your full weight.
It gives more... and, with a terrible howl, begins to buckle. Rusty shards spray
from the ancient metal.

The pillar, slowly, leans.

Then it is swinging around; the pillar is caught by the cable that runs from its
top to the gate-track. Below, the gate twitches. You stare as the west corner of
the gate jerks up, just a thread. Then the east side rises as well. The pillar
slams into the wall, and scrapes; it is still leaning.

The gate rises, rises, as the west pillar falls. The cables whine and hum. But
they hold; and the pillar slows, approaching its mate to the east.

A final creak. Stillness. The west pillar hangs suspended, leaning towards the
east pillar which stands still straight; nearly reaching it; not quite touching.
The gate is open.

>east


The wall looms here, streaked gold with sideways sunlight. The finely-etched
stone blocks are each wider than you can reach; they file at least forty feet
above you. The gate... would be huge anywhere else. It's a square of dark wood
half the wall's height, suspended above the road. The road runs from the gate
towards the distant forest in the south.

The pillar to the east still stands, but the western one tilts wildly over your
head. It leans toward its partner as if it had a secret to impart. But bright
sky slices thin between the two dark shapes.

>north

Wide as it is, the gateway presses briefly around you with its sensation of
weighty stone; but sunlit hills are beyond.


The wall stands, massive and unyielding, to the south. The road issues from its
open gate, though, and leaps merrily over a rise to the north, and beyond it.
Ivy-wound towers are visible, somewhere at the road's end.

>north


A dawn-tale, ivory castle stands far to the north, heavily strung with ivy and
reddening sunlight. The road runs towards it, and back to the south, over a hill
that hides the stone wall. A branch of the road also leads northwest, towards a
dome, which seems to float in a magenta lake.

A large pile of pipes and cable is sprawled untidily by the road.

>nw

The magenta lake resolves into a broad growth of lichen that spreads raggedly
around the dome.


The dome rises to the west, without looming; its curve is gentle. A rough arch
leads within. The dome's surface is a polished brown-grey, a bit mottled, and
the whole structure is very slightly irregular; a homey, reassuring effect. The
ground beneath you is a shocking contrast. Bright lichen covers everything with
magenta tufts; there's not a blade of grass or stick of shrubbery within fifty
yards of the dome. The olive-mossed roads are the only relief; they run
northeast, towards the castle, and southeast.

>west

You pause for a moment, as sun-dazzle fades from the dim interior.


This dim space curves to fill the east edge of the dome. The only light comes
from the bright archway to the east. The west wall curves as well, but toward
you, obviously outlining a chamber in the dome's center; a closed hatch lies
that way. Closed doors lead northwest and southwest, around the dome's
perimeter. A pull-cord hangs above a tiled depression by the eastern exit;
several potted plants sit in corners of the chamber, but broad patches of the
magenta lichen show that this place has gone long untended.

>open hatch

You set your feet and pull. Dust sifts down from the rim as you haul the hatch
cover open.

>touch plant

A cloud of vapor jets from the flower, in the instant that you touch it. You
jerk back, but you still catch a whiff of herbal scent which chills your throat.

>breathe vapor

You lean into the cloud. The chill herbal scent drowns you, an icy blast which
sweeps your senses aside. You shake your head, trying to clear it. Even the
light seems ice-blue.

The vapor begins to disperse.

>west


You are in a room which is round, high, and nearly empty. An open hatch leads
east. A faint, dust-grey light falls from a ring on the domed ceiling.

In the center of the floor are two identical blocks of dull metal, each about
the size of your head.

The herbal aroma clings in your lungs, cool and powerful.

>move left block

The position is awkward; you are leaning practically flat and scrabbling your
toes on the floor for purchase. But you manage to shift the left block a bare
inch.

>again

You shove the left block a bit closer to its partner. They are now lying four
inches from each other.

The room seems brighter.

The herbal aroma clings in your lungs, cool and powerful.

>again

You shove the left block a bit closer to its partner. They are now lying three
inches from each other.

You notice faint reddish stains on the floor, by your feet. In fact, the patches
seem to be shaped like your footprints.

>again

You shove the left block a bit closer to its partner. They are now lying two
inches from each other.

The room is definitely brighter.

The icy, herbal aroma still lingers in the back of your throat.

>again

You shove the left block a bit closer to its partner. They are now lying only an
inch apart.

The ring overhead burns with a stark white light. A faint hum has begun,
somewhere below you.

The red stuff is growing visibly now, like thick blood boiling up.

The reddish patches are growing, and darkening. They seem slightly rough.

A subliminal hum is coming from somewhere in the dome.

>east


This dim space curves to fill the east edge of the dome. The only light comes
from the bright archway to the east. The west wall curves as well, but toward
you, obviously outlining a chamber in the dome's center; a open hatch lies that
way. Closed doors lead northwest and southwest, around the dome's perimeter. A
pull-cord hangs above a tiled depression by the eastern exit; several potted
plants sit in corners of the chamber, but broad patches of the magenta lichen
show that this place has gone long untended.

The icy, herbal aroma still lingers in the back of your throat.

>east

The bright violet sky glares, and you blink painfully for a moment.


The dome rises to the west, without looming; its curve is gentle. A rough arch
leads within. The dome's surface is a polished brown-grey, a bit mottled, and
the whole structure is very slightly irregular; a homey, reassuring effect. The
ground beneath you is a shocking contrast. Bright lichen covers everything with
magenta tufts; there's not a blade of grass or stick of shrubbery within fifty
yards of the dome. The olive-mossed roads are the only relief; they run
northeast, towards the castle, and southeast.

The icy scent is fading from your palate.

>ne

The lichen gives way to more normal meadow weeds as you approach the castle.


The road curves around the west side of the castle, edging the trench. To the
north, it falls into the shade of trees; forest has grown down to the castle's
north edge. A smaller road branches off towards a dome that squats to the
southwest.

A neat stack of pipes and cable sits by the edge of the trench. Close by, a
plain brass lever juts from the stonework.

You can no longer taste the herbal odor.

>pull lever

The lever clunks solidly, and springs back. A loud hum begins... and the pile of
pipes trembles. The topmost pipe begins to rise into the air. Cables pull taut
-- you see some actually being drawn into their anchorage in the ground -- but
somehow this extends the entire pile into the air. It telescopes, pipes hanging
crazily in their web of cables, and then begins to curve over the moat....

With a final twang, the tip of the web touches the castle balcony.

>south

The road curves east as it circles the castle.


The main road ends here, at the edge of a deep dry moat. Or nearly dry; a
trickle of dark water crawls past jagged rusty edges of iron, far below. A broad
stone arch spans the trench, up to the ivy-choked facade of the castle. A
smaller road follows the moat's curve, east and west.

>south


A dawn-tale, ivory castle stands far to the north, heavily strung with ivy and
reddening sunlight. The road runs towards it, and back to the south, over a hill
that hides the stone wall. A branch of the road also leads northwest, towards a
dome, which seems to float in a magenta lake.

A large pile of pipes and cable is sprawled untidily by the road.

>south


The wall stands, massive and unyielding, to the south. The road issues from its
open gate, though, and leaps merrily over a rise to the north, and beyond it.
Ivy-wound towers are visible, somewhere at the road's end.

>south

You duck, quite unnecessarily, as you pass under the massive hanging gate.


The wall looms here, streaked gold with sideways sunlight. The finely-etched
stone blocks are each wider than you can reach; they file at least forty feet
above you. The gate... would be huge anywhere else. It's a square of dark wood
half the wall's height, suspended above the road. The road runs from the gate
towards the distant forest in the south.

The pillar to the east still stands, but the western one tilts wildly over your
head. It leans toward its partner as if it had a secret to impart. But bright
sky slices thin between the two dark shapes.

>south

You stroll for a while, back to the ruined chimney.


A worn stub of brick juts up here, by the road. It's no more than twice your
height; but scattered bricks in the weeds attest to an imposing chimney in time
past. Whatever building the chimney served is now just rotted scraps of wood and
a few stony ridges, and some mounds off to the west. The road continues towards
the wall north, and the distant forest south.

>enter shadow
The shadow  as you set foot to it. The old brick of the chimney looms
impossibly above you, blotting out the sun, the sky, the darkness before you,
your name --

[Hit any key.]


-- Everything drops silently into place again. You are staring at a bale of hay.


You are alone to the east of a long wooden platform. This must be the back, for
a slat fence runs around this small field, enclosing you, assorted rolls of
canvas, and a small mountain of hay bales. A small closed gate breaks the fence
to the north. The sun is bright, but the air is mild and fertile-scented.

You see motion up on the platform -- people, though they're facing the other
way.

>west

You pull yourself up the ladder. No heads turn.


The platform sweeps gently down to the west, in a series of low, wide, sunny
steps. And the steps are filled with people. Quiet people; they sit and gaze
intently out to the west. A long oval of earth is spread out below you in that
direction. Clearly this is a cyclia of some kind. The platform is mostly fenced,
but a broad path leads southwest, and a ladder drops down the east side.

The platform is now crowded with people. Slowly they stop looking at each other,
and begin watching the arena below.

>sw
You make your way down the steps.


This broad yard is the center of the compound, if the worn and cross-tracked
earth is any sign. A road runs east under a brick arch; a path leads northeast
to the seating platform; a wide gate stands open in the fence to the north; and
unpainted wooden buildings stand west and south. The west building's door is
closed, and the south door is open.

An odd creature with a bony crest stands at one edge of the yard. A tether is
looped around its neck and tied to a post near the west building.

Two men, one in yellow and one in blue, enter from the east. Without speaking,
they nod formally to each other, and then pull open the large gate to the north.
They take up position at either side of the gate, waiting... and then a stream
of animals and people pours across the yard, from the south building, through
the gate.

A woman in bright checkered cloth untethers the crested animal, and they join
the procession.



>east


A busy crowd surrounds you, here in the sun. Spacious brick buildings line the
square; a road runs east, a path leads west under a wide arch; and to the south
the plaza continues, a stream of cobblestone, trees, grass-cuts, and lively
people. Lively, but... quiet. Feet moving, smiles, waving hands, but not one
voice. It feels too normal to feel odd. In the center of the cobble circle that
forms this end of the mall, a statue rises from sprawled shrubbery.

There is a stout dark-haired woman here, in yellow silk.

A stumpy old woman wearing blue silk stands here.

The stout woman in yellow walks away south.

>south


The crowded mall stretches north and south, a cheerful bustle of people, trees,
benches, and grass. The hush of the crowd is merely restful. Ornamental building
facades stand along the sides of the plaza, although a dark and narrow alley
slips between brick walls to the east.

There is a stout dark-haired woman here, in yellow silk.

A tall, muscular man in blue silk stands here.

The muscular man in blue walks away north. A tall young man in blue paces toward
you from the south. The stout woman in yellow walks away south.

>east

As you approach the alley, the tall young man in blue frowns. He glances around,
tense. But his search seems to be in vain, and he makes no move towards you.


Blank walls stand close, all ways but west. The sun, hovering low over the west
horizon, shines almost directly into this alley; the brick walls are streaked
with the vivid scratchy shadows of their own roughness.

A lumpy chunk of granite stands here, embedded end-on in the cobblestones. It's
taller than you... and then the curves click, and you are looking at an
abstracted human figure. A woman, you think. Its shadow is black syrup poured
down the alley and up the east wall.

The back of your neck itches. You glance and see a wiry woman in yellow in the
plaza behind you. She is angrily tight-lipped, but after a moment, she shakes
her head and passes beyond your view.

>enter shadow
The shadow  in every direction as you dash into it. Sudden hurried
footsteps behind you become muffled, then merge into the faint rustle of a
thousand silent people in a crowd that stares at you, invisible, inaudible, not
there at all --

[Hit any key.]


-- And the wind ruffles you, and you are merely alone, beneath vast sky.


Not a flat tame greensward, mind you; you are surrounded by wild, waist-high,
reed-yellow growth that hisses and rattles in the dry breeze. The grasses roll
to every cloudless horizon. Above you towers an immense tree -- the only one
visible anywhere in this prairie world -- and its shadow slices blackness past
your feet. A path of flat, trampled grass cuts south down the hill.

You can see a muddle of tents down at the base of the hill, spreading around
most of the west side.

You hear the sound of dripping water, from somewhere to the west.

>south

The crushed grass muffles your footsteps.


You are on the south flank of the grassy hill. The flattened path runs up the
hill to the north, towards the towering tree, and also leads west. The
unconstrained grass spreads everywhere else.

The sound continues, precise... you're not sure it's water now. The sound is too
rich; it almost echoes.

>west

The crushed grass muffles your footsteps.


You are on the southwest edge of the grassy hill. The path hugs the base of the
hill, running east and north from here. A tiny clear rivulet burbles from a
crack in the earth, just off the path; it trickles away through the grass to the
west.

A disorderly cluster of tents runs along the west side of the hill. Twenty yards
or so of tall grass separate the path from the encampment. There is a large
cleared area among the tents, some way north; it is surrounded by motionless
figures.

A second tapping noise begins, off-stepped from the first, at an odd angle of
harmony.

>north

The crushed grass muffles your footsteps.


You are on the western face of the hill. It leans serenely above you, with the
sunlit tree alert at its crest. The flattened path runs north and south.

A disorderly cluster of tents runs along the west side of the hill. Twenty yards
or so of tall grass separate the path from the encampment. There is a large
cleared area among the tents, directly across from you; it is surrounded by
motionless figures.

The rhythms speed, glancing up and down an unfamiliar chord. Under-steps and
syncopations are creeping in.

>north

The crushed grass muffles your footsteps.


You are on the northwest side of the hill. The path runs south along the
hillside, but continues north into the open grassland.

A disorderly cluster of tents runs along the west side of the hill. Twenty yards
or so of tall grass separate the path from the encampment. There is a large
cleared area among the tents, some way south; it is surrounded by motionless
figures.

A deep wail splits the wind; the harmonic rhythms fall into support. The wail is
unearthly, a powerful resonance that nonetheless has the shape of a human voice.

A man leaps into the cleared area, whirling in dance. His face is painted with a
narrow black mask; and as he turns, a woman spins in, balancing his movements
from behind white mask-paint.

>north
The crushed grass muffles your footsteps.


The grass is trampled down in a circle here, a few yards wide. A flattened path
runs towards the hillside to the south, and another leads southwest to the
encampment.

A disorderly cluster of tents runs along the west side of the hill. Twenty yards
or so of tall grass separate the path from the encampment. There is a large
cleared area among the tents, some way south; it is surrounded by motionless
figures.

A man and woman circle each other in an intense dance, in the cleared area to
the west. His eyes are painted across a black stripe; hers with white.

A youngish man is sitting in the circle's center, slumped sideways, clearly
asleep. A spear rests laxly in his hand.

Lying very near the man are a steel knife, a clay jar and a green crystal rod.

More voices join, higher and lower, all with that shimmering strength. The



beating rhythms surge.

The dancers leap into an intricate series of turns, forward and backward around
each other's motion.

>get knife

You gently lift the steel knife from the ground. The man snorfles slightly, but
does not stir.

The wailing harmonies rise and fall.

The man drops forward; the woman takes one final leap towards him, and is borne
upwards, as he extends and launches her out of the circle entirely. But without
a pause, another woman whirls into view. Her garb is identical to the first
woman's; but her mask-paint is grey, and she is roundly pregnant (or so her
costume's shape suggests).

>get jar

You gently lift the clay jar from the ground. The man snorfles slightly, blinks
sleepily at you... and then snatches at his spear and dashes off to the
southwest.

The music cuts off instantly.

A wave of people -- men and women -- pour out of the tents to the west. They are
all holding spears or knives. Holding, not brandishing or waving them; they look
very businesslike. They are running through the grass towards you, needless to
say.

>se

The grass crunches and crackles as you wade through it.


You are on the slope of the hill. The tree stands on the hilltop, immediately to
the south.

A few shouts ring over the noise of the mob, which is crashing through the grass
towards you, from the west.

>se

You wade through the tall crackling grass.


You are on the slope of the hill. The tree stands on the hilltop, immediately to
the west; the sun hovers low behind the branches and turns them to white fire.

A bar of blackness falls across the grass, lying east-west.

A few shouts ring over the noise of the mob, which is crashing through the grass
towards you, from the west.

>enter shadow
The shadow  with a claustrophobic sensation, as if the tree is falling
towards you, or on you, while the ground falls up and the black sky falls down
--

[Hit any key.]


-- You slump against cool brick.


Blank walls stand close, all ways but west. The sun, hovering low over the west
horizon, shines almost directly into this alley; the brick walls are streaked
with the vivid scratchy shadows of their own roughness.

A lumpy chunk of granite stands here, embedded end-on in the cobblestones. It's
taller than you... and then the curves click, and you are looking at an
abstracted human figure. A woman, you think. Its shadow is black syrup poured
down the alley and up the east wall.

You see a wrinkled woman in yellow and a stumpy woman in blue in the plaza to
the west; they pass by the alley without a glance.

>enter shadow
The shadow  in every direction as you dash into it. Sudden hurried
footsteps behind you become muffled, then merge into the faint rustle of a
thousand silent people in a crowd that stares at you, invisible, inaudible, not
there at all --

[Hit any key.]


-- And the wind ruffles you, and you are merely alone, beneath vast sky.


Not a flat tame greensward, mind you; you are surrounded by wild, waist-high,
reed-yellow growth that hisses and rattles in the dry breeze. The grasses roll
to every cloudless horizon. Above you towers an immense tree -- the only one
visible anywhere in this prairie world -- and its shadow slices blackness past
your feet. A path of flat, trampled grass cuts south down the hill.

>south

The crushed grass muffles your footsteps.


You are on the south flank of the grassy hill. The flattened path runs up the
hill to the north, towards the towering tree, and also leads west. The
unconstrained grass spreads everywhere else.

>west

The crushed grass muffles your footsteps.


You are on the southwest edge of the grassy hill. The path hugs the base of the
hill, running east and north from here. A tiny clear rivulet burbles from a
crack in the earth, just off the path; it trickles away through the grass to the
west.

>fill jar

(with water from the tiny spring)
You dunk the jar and let water bubble in.

>north

The crushed grass muffles your footsteps.


You are on the western face of the hill. It leans serenely above you, with the
sunlit tree alert at its crest. The flattened path runs north and south.

>east

The grass crunches and crackles as you wade through it.


Not a flat tame greensward, mind you; you are surrounded by wild, waist-high,
reed-yellow growth that hisses and rattles in the dry breeze. The grasses roll
to every cloudless horizon. Above you towers an immense tree -- the only one
visible anywhere in this prairie world -- and its shadow slices blackness past
your feet. A path of flat, trampled grass cuts south down the hill.

A drop of water falls on your leg.

>enter shadow
The shadow  with a claustrophobic sensation, as if the tree is falling
towards you, or on you, while the ground falls up and the black sky falls down
--

[Hit any key.]


-- You slump against cool brick.


Blank walls stand close, all ways but west. The sun, hovering low over the west
horizon, shines almost directly into this alley; the brick walls are streaked
with the vivid scratchy shadows of their own roughness.

A lumpy chunk of granite stands here, embedded end-on in the cobblestones. It's
taller than you... and then the curves click, and you are looking at an
abstracted human figure. A woman, you think. Its shadow is black syrup poured
down the alley and up the east wall.

You see a muscular man in blue in the plaza to the west; he passes by the alley
without a glance.

>west


The crowded mall stretches north and south, a cheerful bustle of people, trees,
benches, and grass. The hush of the crowd is merely restful. Ornamental building
facades stand along the sides of the plaza, although a dark and narrow alley
slips between brick walls to the east.

A tall, muscular man in blue silk stands here.

Water is trickling across your fingers. You glance down. The jar isn't tilted,
or cracked; the trickle seems to be oozing straight from the clay, just above
the smudge.

The muscular man in blue walks away north. A stout woman in yellow walks toward
you from the north.

A slender man lifts a smoking tube to his lips.

>wait

Time passes.

A tall young man in blue paces toward you from the south. The stout woman in
yellow walks away south. A wiry woman in yellow walks toward you from the north.

A young girl lifts a smoking tube to her lips. As she vanishes into the crowd,
something tiny drops from her sleeve to the cobblestones.

>get square

Taken.

The tall young man in blue walks away north. A stumpy woman in blue paces toward
you from the south. The wiry woman in yellow walks away south.

A slender boy lifts a smoking tube to his lips.

>north
A busy crowd surrounds you, here in the sun. Spacious brick buildings line the
square; a road runs east, a path leads west under a wide arch; and to the south
the plaza continues, a stream of cobblestone, trees, grass-cuts, and lively
people. Lively, but... quiet. Feet moving, smiles, waving hands, but not one
voice. It feels too normal to feel odd. In the center of the cobble circle that
forms this end of the mall, a statue rises from sprawled shrubbery.

There is a lean, wrinkled woman here, in yellow silk.

A tall, peculiar-looking young man in blue silk stands here.

A stumpy woman in blue walks up from the south. She paces formally up to the
tall young man in blue; they bow slightly, and the tall young man in blue
vanishes into a building. The wrinkled woman in yellow walks away south. A stout
woman in yellow appears from a building's doorway.

Copper hair swings through the crowd, familiar for an instant, then gone. You
search the many faces around you -- Aessa couldn't be in this strange place,
could she? You do not see her now. If ever.



>west


This broad yard is the center of the compound, if the worn and cross-tracked
earth is any sign. A road runs east under a brick arch; a path leads northeast
to the seating platform; a wide gate stands open in the fence to the north; and
unpainted wooden buildings stand west and south. The west building's door is
closed, and the south door is open.

Two men flank the open gate. The tall one is wearing blue silk and the fat one
yellow, in identical styles; but you'd guessed they have some formal function
just from the way they stand.

>ne


The platform sweeps gently down to the west, in a series of low, wide, sunny
steps. And the steps are filled with people. Quiet people; they sit and gaze
intently out to the west. A long oval of earth is spread out below you in that
direction. Clearly this is a cyclia of some kind. The platform is mostly fenced,
but a broad path leads southwest, and a ladder drops down the east side.

Two animals are lying in the arena, with the rest leaping over both of them.
Then two, and now three; the leaps grow longer.

The people around you wave their chains harder.

>east

You let your eyes wander east, and let your body absently follow, until you
reach the ladder. Unnoticed, you descend.


You are alone to the east of a long wooden platform. This must be the back, for
a slat fence runs around this small field, enclosing you, assorted rolls of
canvas, and a small mountain of hay bales. A small closed gate breaks the fence
to the north. The sun is bright, but the air is mild and fertile-scented.

>enter shadow
The shadow  in the way you are coming almost to understand. Again the
blackness falls upon you, and your thoughts, scattering and wearing them down
into their own ends --

[Hit any key.]


-- And the world begins again in the rich autumn wind.


A worn stub of brick juts up here, by the road. It's no more than twice your
height; but scattered bricks in the weeds attest to an imposing chimney in time
past. Whatever building the chimney served is now just rotted scraps of wood and
a few stony ridges, and some mounds off to the west. The road continues towards
the wall north, and the distant forest south.

>north

You stroll for a while, up to the wall.


The wall looms here, streaked gold with sideways sunlight. The finely-etched
stone blocks are each wider than you can reach; they file at least forty feet
above you. The gate... would be huge anywhere else. It's a square of dark wood
half the wall's height, suspended above the road. The road runs from the gate
towards the distant forest in the south.

The pillar to the east still stands, but the western one tilts wildly over your
head. It leans toward its partner as if it had a secret to impart. But bright
sky slices thin between the two dark shapes.

>north

Wide as it is, the gateway presses briefly around you with its sensation of
weighty stone; but sunlit hills are beyond.


The wall stands, massive and unyielding, to the south. The road issues from its
open gate, though, and leaps merrily over a rise to the north, and beyond it.
Ivy-wound towers are visible, somewhere at the road's end.

>north


A dawn-tale, ivory castle stands far to the north, heavily strung with ivy and
reddening sunlight. The road runs towards it, and back to the south, over a hill
that hides the stone wall. A branch of the road also leads northwest, towards a
dome, which seems to float in a magenta lake.

A large pile of pipes and cable is sprawled untidily by the road.

>north


The main road ends here, at the edge of a deep dry moat. Or nearly dry; a
trickle of dark water crawls past jagged rusty edges of iron, far below. A broad
stone arch spans the trench, up to the ivy-choked facade of the castle. A
smaller road follows the moat's curve, east and west.

A subliminal hum is coming from somewhere below.

>west

The road curves north as it circles the castle.


The road curves around the west side of the castle, edging the trench. To the
north, it falls into the shade of trees; forest has grown down to the castle's
north edge. A smaller road branches off towards a dome that squats to the
southwest.

An airy web of pipes and cables arches neatly over the moat, touching the
balcony. The lever juts from the stonework near its base.

>east

You step gingerly onto the bridge. For all its delicacy, it barely sways, and
you climb easily across the gaping moat.


The mosaic paving is every shade of scarlet and grey, a shocking contrast to the
castle walls, the ivory stone which was all that was visible from the ground
beyond the moat. Even the ivy that chokes the walls above and below you does not
venture far onto the colored tiles. A small arch would lead east into the
castle, were it not entirely filled with vines. To the west, wild ruffling
meadows spread under the violet sky; the dome is visible to the southwest, in
its magenta stain of lichen.

An airy web of pipes and cables arches neatly over the moat, just touching the
balcony, casting a pool of shadow across the mosaic tiles.

>enter shadow
The shadow  across everything, dimming the vines, the darkened mosaic, the
black sky --

[Hit any key.]


-- Deathly cold strikes like a soundless slap; you are dazzled by sun-glaring
snow.


Blue sky glares above you, to the dead-white horizon, and between them is
nothing but wind and the cold. Snow crunches gently beneath your feet. Above
your head, a wind-sculpted spire of ice twists fantastically, and its shadow
lies as strange and utterly black against the glittering snow. You can make out
something dark to the south, a pole or column of some sort.

>south

Your feet scrape numbly through the snow, for a time.


The air slices you without remorse. The horizon is an irregular wall of dirty
white against blue, and the snow beneath you is marked only by a few pawprints.
To the east and southeast, though, the ice falls away into an abrupt, shadowy
crevasse.

A metal pole sticks out from the snow. At its foot sits a red, fuzzy bundle,
neatly folded and quite outrageous in this chilly-white world.

>get blanket

Taken.

You are shivering violently.

Needles of ice are forming in the jar of water.

>wear it

You wrap the blanket awkwardly around yourself. A bit of warmth begins to creep
back.

The wind slackens, then blasts again.

>west

The horizon darkens as you walk. After a while, you can make out the face of a
low cliff ahead. It rises, until -- still distant -- it blots out the sun; you
pass into shadow.


The unbounded and bitter ice is broken, to the west; a low cliff rears up all
along that curve of the horizon. The sun is hidden behind the stony wall, but
soft beams of light seem to radiate from the cliff-edge, across the sky and over
your head. Pawprints track through the snow nearby.

>nw

Your feet crunch softly in the snow and cold. Eventually the ground slopes up,
as you reach the steep slope that is the northern extremity of the cliff.


You stand on a steep angle, digging your feet carefully in the snow, trying not
to slip. The crest of this ridge rises to the west; the sun is hidden behind it.
To the south, the slope steepens.

There's a gleam of metal in the snow -- a twisted bit of rod, pronged; perhaps a
key of some sort.

The water in the jar has a thin skin of ice on it.

A knife of icy wind seems to lay open your bones.

>south

You move across the face of the slope, slowly upward. As you rise, the snow
thins; after a time, you move across bare chill stone.


You stand on the edge of a cliff, a silent wave of weathered stone; it stares
out over the equally silent sea of ice that lies to the east, and below. The
stark edge gentles and descends to the north, and the cliff steepens to the
south.

A narrow crack runs through the rock, a few feet from the edge.

You thought the wind was deadly on the plain below... this stone is thrust like
a challenge into the bitter sky, and the sky assaults it. A constant roar of ice
blasts across you from the west. You would not care to climb higher.

>pour water in crack

(the quantity of freezing water in the narrow crack)
You crack away the layer of ice, and upend the jar. The water fills the crack
neatly. The stone must be whole, beneath, for the level isn't sinking.

>wait

Time passes.

Delicate crystals of frost are forming in the crack.

>wait

Time passes.

>wait

Time passes.

The gale tears at your blanket. Your hands and feet are becoming numb.

The water in the crack is nearly frozen over.

>wait

Time passes.

There is a faint pop from the ice in the crack. Another.

>wait

Time passes.



You look down, just in time to see the lip of the cliff slide away towards the
distant snow. Shards of ice follow, a glittering shower from the crack that is
now the cliff's new edge. The rumble fades below.

>north

Ice traces the stones as you descend, then spreads.


You stand on a steep angle, digging your feet carefully in the snow, trying not
to slip. The crest of this ridge rises to the west; the sun is hidden behind it.
To the south, the slope steepens.

There's a gleam of metal in the snow -- a twisted bit of rod, pronged; perhaps a
key of some sort.

>se

You slither down the slope, and then set off across the icy plain.


The unbounded and bitter ice is broken, to the west; a low cliff rears up all
along that curve of the horizon. The sun is hidden behind the stony wall, but
soft beams of light seem to radiate from the cliff-edge, across the sky and over
your head. Pawprints track through the snow nearby.

>sw

You trudge through the shadow of the cliff, which gradually looms.


The snow ends here; to the west rises a massive, worn wall of stone. It seems to
press against you, even without touching, and against the unbounded white world
that stretches east. But it does little against the wind.

There is a cave in the cliff's face, a dark hole several feet above your head.
Rubble is mounded against the cliff, directly below the cave.

>enter rubble

You scramble up onto the rubble, and stretch... there, a hand on the lip of the
cave. Several moments of strenuous exercise, and you are inside.


The tunnel is round, as you saw from the outside, and the walls are smooth; a
hint of groove curves around them. The passage recedes west, dimly, though you
can make out a hint of glow in the distance. A blinding blue and white circle of
outer world glares at you from the east. Somehow, the wind is not blowing in, so
the air is icily still.

>west

As you move deeper into the tunnel, you feel the floor rising, very slightly.


The tunnel is very straight. You can tell that it's not quite east-west, though;
the distant bright spot of outside snow is more east-northeast, and a strange
watery glow is visible west-southwest.

>west

You walk towards the glow. The walls change, abruptly, from smooth carved stone
to milky blue ice.


The shape of the tunnel is the same, but you are surrounded by translucent ice,
here at the end. To the east the passage returns to the dimness of stone. The
west wall is an irregular sweep of ice; and it glows, with what must be the
setting rays of the sun, somewhere to the west. Ripples of gold light fall
through milky blue veils, turning this space into a small still cathedral.

Caught within the western ice is a dark, indistinct form. The glow behind it
casts a night-black shadow across the tunnel's floor.

>remove blanket

You unwrap yourself from the blanket. The dim chill pours down your skin.

The cold is a vague ache through your blood, and it is hard to move.

You hear a distant, muted rush, more with your bones than your ears.

>examine shadow

The edges of the shadow are indistinct, though still somehow impenetrably dark.

>enter it
The shadow  devouring the milky ice-light around you, then the world, then
you --

[Hit any key.]


-- Air scalds your face, and then is merely tepid, with a bitter burning scent.
The world is still dim, but with a strange glare --


You stand on the east side of a wide circle of grey, glittering sand. The sky is
black; but it is not night, for the sun hangs above the western horizon, a
strange, fierce white dot that does not dim the stars around it or the moons
above. A familiar sky-black shadow lies at your feet, cast in dim sunlight from
a waist-high dome which stands at the center of the circle. The sand is
surrounded by a fence of sorts -- tall silver bars rise around you, a roofless
cage. And beyond that is nothing but endless barren plain.

Beyond the bars, something shifts. You spin; a hooded white outline watches you,
peering between the silver posts. Or at least it seems to. You can make out no
detail of face or feature in that indistinct figure. Nor in the one next to it.
You turn again; the circle is surrounded by a crowd of pale shapes.

>nw

You circle the dome. The white figures seem to become more intent, drawing a
little closer to the bars.


The west side of the circle is no different. Silver posts march around the
perimeter of the sand, beneath the impossible starry, sun-lit night sky. The low
dome rises to the east, at the circle's center.

A crowd of white shapes moves in slow turmoil beyond the bars.

Low tones grate through you, and you look up to see several of the white shapes
moving animatedly to the west, beyond the bars. There is something about their
motions -- are they gesturing to something behind you?

>examine dome

The dome is a perfect hemisphere, of some glossy white substance. It dimly
reflects the sun and moons, but it has no other detail, or even texture. There
is a narrow edge of black shadow along the west arc of the dome. What? Ah -- the
moon Amwal, though nearly at zenith, is just low enough yet to cast it.

>examine shadow

The moon Amwal is high and rising. But it is yet low enough to cast a knife-thin
edge of shadow, on the west side of the dome. You notice a current of motion
among the white figures as you turn towards the shadow.

The chill is fading from your blood.

>enter it
The white figures are whirling around the circle, echoing with harsh grating
tones. You ignore them -- are they  -- and set foot to the darkness. The
shadow seems far too narrow to enter; but it  across the sand, without
seeming to change. The silver bars flicker away into the black sky, one by one,
and then the stars --

[Hit any key.]


-- There is nothing beneath your feet. You flail convulsively for a moment,
before you realize that you are not falling.


You hang without support, and the depths below swirl with mist. Above you, the
sky is flat and grey. Shapes move slowly across it.

The formless shadows above you resolve for a moment, into two silhouettes
walking slowly across a sunny park. Other shapes play some game in the distance,
but the pair pay no attention. They stop by a low stone wall. A bird darts down,
and lands on it, and eyes them fearlessly.

>west

Though there is nothing beneath you to move across, you consider motion, and
something happens. Nothing changes; but there is a faint resistance, a sense of
effort, like a dream of flying into the wind.


You hang without support, and the depths below swirl with mist. Above you, the
sky is flat and grey. Shapes move slowly across it.

The formless shadows above you resolve for a moment, into a silhouette standing
in a small room -- a kitchen, full of jars and untidy sacks. The figure mixes
furiously, tastes from his bowl, shakes a bottle over it, taps again to be sure.
Peelings and shells pile up on the counter.

>north

There is motion, and a faint sense of resistance to it.


You hang without support, and the depths below swirl with mist. Above you, the
sky is flat and grey. Shapes move slowly across it.

The formless shadows above you resolve for a moment, into a dim figure sitting
over a desk, pen in hand. It shuffles through one sheaf of papers, then another;
it picks up a book that is lying on the floor. A few lines are scratched. The
figure jumps up and walks in a tight circle, waving its arms. Then it sits,
writes another line or two, and so it continues.

>north

There is motion, and a faint sense of resistance to it.


You hang without support, and the depths below swirl with mist. Above you, the
sky is flat and grey. Shapes move slowly across it.

The formless shadows above you resolve for a moment, into several figures lying
on trim grass, staring up into the sky. The sunlight is somehow dim. One
silhouette sits up, and seems to laugh, and points at its own shadow.

>north

There is motion, and a faint sense of resistance to it.


You hang without support, and the depths below swirl with mist. Above you, the
sky is flat and grey. Shapes move slowly across it.

The shadows above you change. Again you see the figure in a kitchen.

>sw

There is motion, and a faint sense of resistance to it.


You hang without support, and the depths below swirl with mist. Above you, the
sky is flat and grey. Shapes move slowly across it.

The shadows above you change. Again you see the figure hard at work at a desk.

>north

There is motion, and a faint sense of resistance to it.


You hang without support, and the depths below swirl with mist. Above you, the
sky is flat and grey. Shapes move slowly across it.

The shadows above you change. Again you see the figures lying under strange
sunlight.

>sw

There is motion, and a faint sense of resistance to it.


You hang without support, and the depths below swirl with mist. Above you, the
sky is flat and grey. Shapes move slowly across it.

The formless shadows above you resolve for a moment, into six silhouettes
sitting in a circle, in a plush room. One is reading out loud, from a book. It
turns a page and passes the book to its right, and that figure continues the
reading. There is a distant air of solemnity, until one reader grimaces, and
seems to laugh ruefully. It begins again.

>north

There is motion, and a faint sense of resistance to it.


You hang without support, and the depths below swirl with mist. Above you, the
sky is flat and grey. Shapes move slowly across it.

The formless shadows above you resolve for a moment, into three figures kneeling
on pavement, around an arrangement of cards and small shapes. One silhouette
lays down another card and moves an angular shape onto it. The other two sit
back, frowning. One gropes for a jar and sips from it.

>sw

There is motion, and a faint sense of resistance to it.


You hang without support, and the depths below swirl with mist. Above you, the
sky is flat and grey. Shapes move slowly across it.

The formless shadows above you resolve for a moment, into two silhouettes
standing in a room; many others sit around them. The two mouths are moving,
soundlessly, and you see a stray foot tapping. The audience is relaxed,
laughing.

>north

There is motion, and a faint sense of resistance to it.


You hang without support, and the depths below swirl with mist. Above you, the
sky is flat and grey. Shapes move slowly across it.

The shadows above you change. Again you see the six figures sitting in a circle,
reading.

>sw

There is motion, and a faint sense of resistance to it.


You hang without support, and the depths below swirl with mist. Above you, the
sky is flat and grey. Shapes move slowly across it.

The shadows above you change. Again you see the three figures kneeling around
their cards.

>north

There is motion, and a faint sense of resistance to it.


You hang without support, and the depths below swirl with mist. Above you, the
sky is flat and grey. Shapes move slowly across it.

The shadows above you change. Again you see the two figures performing.

>sw

There is motion. Nothing changes; but there is a faint acceleration, a sense of
ease, like a dream of sinking through still water.


You hang without support, and the depths below swirl with mist. Above you, the
sky is flat and grey. Shapes move slowly across it.

The formless shadows above you resolve for a moment, into one silhouette walking
slowly in a sunny park. It takes a side path, and then another, seemingly
without aim or direction. A dry tree branch tosses idly in one hand; the figure
does not speak.

>north

There is motion, and a faint sense of resistance to it.


You hang without support, and the depths below swirl with mist. Above you, the
sky is flat and grey. Shapes move slowly across it.

The formless shadows above you resolve for a moment, into two silhouettes
standing on a dark porch. They are talking, but they are huddled somehow away
from each other, and one will not look the other in the eye. A third shape steps
out for a moment nearby, and the two freeze, until the third moves away.

>west

There is motion, and a faint sense of resistance to it.


You hang without support, and the depths below swirl with mist. Above you, the
sky is flat and grey. Shapes move slowly across it.

The shadows above you change. Again you see the two figures performing.

>north

There is motion; and a sense of resistance which becomes suddenly powerful,
seizing your progress.


You hang without support, and the depths below swirl with mist. Above you, the
sky is flat and grey. Shapes move slowly across it.

The shadows above you change. Again you see the lone figure walking in a sunny
park.

>wait

Time passes.

The shadows above you change. Again you see the two figures standing stiffly on
a dark porch.

>wait

Time passes.

The formless shadows above you resolve for a moment, into a dark figure standing
in an empty room. Its lips move, silently: Will you forgive me?

>wait

Time passes.

The shapes in the sky fade. No, they are around you -- a ring of dimness that
sweeps in from every direction, shrinking, coalescing before you. The words echo
this time: "Will you forgive me?"

>examine ring

A ring of translucent darkness hangs before you, horizontal, no broader than
your circled arms would be. A thousand fragmentary shapes might flicker within
the shadowy band; but they are all quite still.

>enter it

Straining against intangible resistance, you cross the boundary of the ring. It
writhes suddenly and collapses inward --

 The silence is not broken, but it seems tuned to a higher pitch; echoes
of something fade reluctantly from your thoughts. Echoes of... you're not sure.
But for a moment, you saw 

Something swoops past your head.

>examine shadow

At this distance, it's a mere spot. But it has the same night's-blood darkness
which has brought you this strange, far way.

Something else catches your eye: there is a shadow upon the mist, far below.

>enter it
Once again, the thought of motion becomes motion; you slide downward. The
glowing sphere follows, circling your head quietly, even as your descent speeds,
becomes a plummet.... Mist whips past you; the wind roars; you cannot breathe
for it, and then the blackness swallows you, leaving silence and the single
light of the orbiting sphere --

[Hit any key.]


-- Foul air chokes you.


The west side of the circle is no different. Silver posts march around the
perimeter of the sand, beneath the impossible starry, sun-lit night sky. The low
dome rises to the east, at the circle's center.

Something thuds into the sand at your feet.

>get sphere

Taken. It's surprisingly heavy.

>se

You circle the dome.


You stand on the east side of a wide circle of grey, glittering sand. The sky is
black; but it is not night, for the sun hangs above the western horizon, a
strange, fierce white dot that does not dim the stars around it or the moons
above. A familiar sky-black shadow lies at your feet, cast in dim sunlight from
a waist-high dome which stands at the center of the circle. The sand is
surrounded by a fence of sorts -- tall silver bars rise around you, a roofless
cage. And beyond that is nothing but endless barren plain.

>enter shadow
The shadow  across the sand; the silver bars flicker away into the black
sky, one by one, and then the stars --

[Hit any key.]


-- Clean cold air snaps you back to awareness, in the soft and layered glow of
the ice.

Something in your hand feels less weighty.


The shape of the tunnel is the same, but you are surrounded by translucent ice,
here at the end. To the east the passage returns to the dimness of stone. The
west wall is an irregular sweep of ice; and it glows, with what must be the
setting rays of the sun, somewhere to the west. Ripples of gold light fall
through milky blue veils, turning this space into a small still cathedral.

Caught within the western ice is a dark, indistinct form. The glow behind it
casts a night-black shadow across the tunnel's floor.

>east

You leave, feeling again the faint downward and northward angle of the tunnel.
Stone surrounds you again.


The tunnel is very straight. You can tell that it's not quite east-west, though;
the distant bright spot of outside snow is more east-northeast, and a strange
watery glow is visible west-southwest.

>east

You walk towards the light.


The tunnel is round, as you saw from the outside, and the walls are smooth; a
hint of groove curves around them. The passage recedes west, dimly, though you
can make out a hint of glow in the distance. A blinding blue and white circle of
outer world glares at you from the east. Somehow, the wind is not blowing in, so
the air is icily still.

You are shivering violently.

>east

You sit on the lip of the tunnel, turn, and carefully lower yourself to the
rubble below. A chunk of stone slides, but you manage to wobble your way off
with only a slight wrench to your ankle.


The snow ends here; to the west rises a massive, worn wall of stone. It seems to
press against you, even without touching, and against the unbounded white world
that stretches east. But it does little against the wind.

There is a cave in the cliff's face, a dark hole several feet above your head.
Rubble is mounded against the cliff, directly below the cave.

>ne

You move out, shivering, into the endless snow.


The unbounded and bitter ice is broken, to the west; a low cliff rears up all
along that curve of the horizon. The sun is hidden behind the stony wall, but
soft beams of light seem to radiate from the cliff-edge, across the sky and over
your head. Pawprints track through the snow nearby.

The wind shrieks.

>east

A faint shadow on the ice ahead slowly widens, until you reach the lip of an
unfathomable crevasse.


The air slices you without remorse. The horizon is an irregular wall of dirty
white against blue, and the snow beneath you is marked only by a few pawprints.
To the east and southeast, though, the ice falls away into an abrupt, shadowy
crevasse.

A metal pole sticks out from the snow.

Your hands and feet are becoming numb.

>north

Light gleams on the spire ahead as you push through bitter wind.


Blue sky glares above you, to the dead-white horizon, and between them is
nothing but wind and the cold. Snow crunches gently beneath your feet. Above
your head, a wind-sculpted spire of ice twists fantastically, and its shadow
lies as strange and utterly black against the glittering snow. You can make out
something dark to the south, a pole or column of some sort.

>enter shadow
The shadow  whirling between you and the glaring white landscape; the
bitter cold fades to no feeling at all --

[Hit any key.]


-- Air scalds your face, and then is merely tepid; you slowly adjust again to
the brisk autumn breeze.


The mosaic paving is every shade of scarlet and grey, a shocking contrast to the
castle walls, the ivory stone which was all that was visible from the ground
beyond the moat. Even the ivy that chokes the walls above and below you does not
venture far onto the colored tiles. A small arch would lead east into the
castle, were it not entirely filled with vines. To the west, wild ruffling
meadows spread under the violet sky; the dome is visible to the southwest, in
its magenta stain of lichen.

An airy web of pipes and cables arches neatly over the moat, just touching the
balcony, casting a pool of shadow across the mosaic tiles.

The chill is fading from your blood.

>west

You step up on the bridge, and pass over the moat.


The road curves around the west side of the castle, edging the trench. To the
north, it falls into the shade of trees; forest has grown down to the castle's
north edge. A smaller road branches off towards a dome that squats to the
southwest.

An airy web of pipes and cables arches neatly over the moat, touching the
balcony. The lever juts from the stonework near its base.

>south

The road curves east as it circles the castle.


The main road ends here, at the edge of a deep dry moat. Or nearly dry; a
trickle of dark water crawls past jagged rusty edges of iron, far below. A broad
stone arch spans the trench, up to the ivy-choked facade of the castle. A
smaller road follows the moat's curve, east and west.

>south


A dawn-tale, ivory castle stands far to the north, heavily strung with ivy and
reddening sunlight. The road runs towards it, and back to the south, over a hill
that hides the stone wall. A branch of the road also leads northwest, towards a
dome, which seems to float in a magenta lake.

A large pile of pipes and cable is sprawled untidily by the road.

>south


The wall stands, massive and unyielding, to the south. The road issues from its
open gate, though, and leaps merrily over a rise to the north, and beyond it.
Ivy-wound towers are visible, somewhere at the road's end.

>south

You duck, quite unnecessarily, as you pass under the massive hanging gate.


The wall looms here, streaked gold with sideways sunlight. The finely-etched
stone blocks are each wider than you can reach; they file at least forty feet
above you. The gate... would be huge anywhere else. It's a square of dark wood
half the wall's height, suspended above the road. The road runs from the gate
towards the distant forest in the south.

The pillar to the east still stands, but the western one tilts wildly over your
head. It leans toward its partner as if it had a secret to impart. But bright
sky slices thin between the two dark shapes.

>south

You stroll for a while, back to the ruined chimney.


A worn stub of brick juts up here, by the road. It's no more than twice your
height; but scattered bricks in the weeds attest to an imposing chimney in time
past. Whatever building the chimney served is now just rotted scraps of wood and
a few stony ridges, and some mounds off to the west. The road continues towards
the wall north, and the distant forest south.

>enter shadow
The shadow  as you set foot to it. The old brick of the chimney looms
impossibly above you, blotting out the sun, the sky, the darkness before you,
your name --

[Hit any key.]


-- Everything drops silently into place again. You are staring at a bale of hay.


You are alone to the east of a long wooden platform. This must be the back, for
a slat fence runs around this small field, enclosing you, assorted rolls of
canvas, and a small mountain of hay bales. A small closed gate breaks the fence
to the north. The sun is bright, but the air is mild and fertile-scented.

You can see the people on the platform have risen to their feet, waving their
sparkling hands madly.

>west

You pull yourself up the ladder. No heads turn.


The platform sweeps gently down to the west, in a series of low, wide, sunny
steps. And the steps are filled with people. Quiet people; they sit and gaze
intently out to the west. A long oval of earth is spread out below you in that
direction. Clearly this is a cyclia of some kind. The platform is mostly fenced,
but a broad path leads southwest, and a ladder drops down the east side.

All the animals in the arena rise, and parade slowly around.

>sw

You make your way down the steps.


This broad yard is the center of the compound, if the worn and cross-tracked
earth is any sign. A road runs east under a brick arch; a path leads northeast
to the seating platform; a wide gate stands open in the fence to the north; and
unpainted wooden buildings stand west and south. The west building's door is
closed, and the south door is open.

Two men flank the open gate. The tall one is wearing blue silk and the fat one
yellow, in identical styles; but you'd guessed they have some formal function
just from the way they stand.

People and strange animals begin filing out of the gate. They stream through the
yard, into the building to the south.

You notice one creature hooting distressedly, balking at the southern doorway.
After a moment, its trainer shakes her head and tethers it to a post in the
yard.

>wait

Time passes.

The last few animals dart through the northern gate, and are led to the south.
The men in blue and yellow nod formally to each other, slide the gate shut, nod
again, and vanish still silent through the arch.

>wait

Time passes.

>wait

Time passes.

People are walking down from the platform, and moving through the arch, and
away.

>wait

Time passes.

The yard empties as the last of the crowd leaves to the east.

>wait

Time passes.

The crested animal chews thoughtfully.

>wait

Time passes.

>wait

Time passes.

>wait

Time passes.

>wait

Time passes.

The crested animal noses around the edge of the yard, to the limit of its
tether, and crops some grass with its bill.

>wait

Time passes.

Three people in dull clothing enter from the arch. They drag open the northern
gate, and disappear through it.

The crested animal chews thoughtfully.

>north


You stand in a long arena of soft, dry earth. The ground is scarred with tracks,
both of claws and hooves and booted feet; a musty smell rises around you, but
the arena is quiet and still. A railing surrounds you, with a wide gate to the
south, which lies open.

Three people are working here, sweeping and cleaning the ground, and gathering
scraps and trash. They move methodically and don't seem to notice you at all.

You notice a length of brighter color, something orange, lying along the edge of
the arena.

The people here continue sweeping and picking up scraps.

>get orange

You pick it up, and try to shake it out. It's a crumpled length of heavy
leather, at least six feet long, and oddly shaped.

The three people reach the north end of the arena, and begin making their way
back, sweeping industriously.

>south

You silently slip through the gate.


This broad yard is the center of the compound, if the worn and cross-tracked
earth is any sign. A road runs east under a brick arch; a path leads northeast
to the seating platform; a wide gate stands open in the fence to the north; and
unpainted wooden buildings stand west and south. The west building's door is
closed, and the south door is open.

An odd creature with a bony crest stands at one edge of the yard. A tether is
looped around its neck and tied to a post near the west building.

Three people in nondescript clothing come through the gate, pulling it shut
behind them. They walk away to the east without a word or glance.

>cut tether with knife

A few moments of determined sawing, and the tether dangles free.

>south


The building is dim and slightly damp, lit only by narrow windows and the open
door to the north. Another, smaller door stands closed in the south wall. This
room is divided by several low partitions; the sections are open to each other,
and floored with soft earth.

A pair of large, evil-looking creatures are tethered to one side. They sport
astonishingly long tails, and an astonishing assortment of claws. The claws of
one are stained green, matching the dyed leather of its harness; the other's
claws and tack are violet.

The violet clawed creature digs idly at a post with one claw, raising splinters.

>put orange on violet

(the violet clawed creature)
You fit the leather over the animal's back. The ends hang neatly in front of its
legs.

>enter violet

(the violet clawed creature)
You clamber up the violet clawed creature's back. It hisses and rears -- not
angrily, just stretching -- and you grab for support, trying not to slide down
the nearly vertical spine. The orange leather gives your legs purchase, though,
and you steady yourself with some convenient straps.

The violet clawed creature arches its back under you.

>untie it
The moment the harness is unhooked, the violet clawed creature emits a piercing
shriek. There is a white glint in its eye which must have been there all
along... and then the long legs bunch.

There is a tremendous  You find yourself lying flat on the creature's
neck, your feet caught in some orange straps -- no, maybe they're supposed to be
there, at least you're not falling off -- and the creature is into another
tremendous flat leap, the door lintel nearly shears your head off, and


You cling to straps as the ground blurs.

 (on the violet clawed creature)
This broad yard is the center of the compound, if the worn and cross-tracked
earth is any sign. A road runs east under a brick arch; a path leads northeast
to the seating platform; a wide gate stands closed in the fence to the north;
and unpainted wooden buildings stand west and south. The west building's door is
closed, and the south door is open.

An odd creature with a bony crest stands at one edge of the yard. A tether is
looped around its neck and hangs loosely to the ground.



The crested creature shrieks as you come into view. It leaps for the arch, eyes
darting back at your mount.

>wait

Time passes.

You cling to straps as the ground blurs.

 (on the violet clawed creature)
A busy crowd surrounds you, here in the sun. Spacious brick buildings line the
square; a road runs east, a path leads west under a wide arch; and to the south
the plaza continues, a stream of cobblestone, trees, grass-cuts, and lively
people. Lively, but... quiet. Feet moving, smiles, waving hands, but not one
voice. It feels too normal to feel odd. In the center of the cobble circle that
forms this end of the mall, a statue rises from sprawled shrubbery.

A tall, muscular man in blue silk stands here.

The crested creature swerves south, dashing down the mall.

>wait

Time passes.

You cling to straps as the ground blurs. A couple walking hand-in-hand are
knocked aside as your mount darts between them.

 (on the violet clawed creature)
The crowded mall stretches north and south, a cheerful bustle of people, trees,
benches, and grass. The hush of the crowd is merely restful. Ornamental building
facades stand along the sides of the plaza, although a dark and narrow alley
slips between brick walls to the east.

A stumpy old woman wearing blue silk stands here.

The crested creature is just a few yards ahead of you.

>wait

Time passes.

You cling to straps as the ground blurs.

 (on the violet clawed creature)
The cobble way from the north ends here, at a broad tree-lined square which runs
down to a gentle river. Smaller roads runs east and west, along the water's
edge. In the center of the square is a marble pedestal. Silent people stand and
flow around the mall, animated or relaxed.

A tall, muscular man in blue silk stands here.

There is a wiry woman here, in yellow silk.

The crested creature is heading straight at the river!

>wait

Time passes.

With the power of desperation, the crested creature launches itself over the
water. It hangs for a moment in the light -- and then your own mount gathers
itself, and the world is momentarily as distant as the sky --

Clawed feet  into dry earth, and your abused fingers finally slip. The
ground smacks you hard. By the time you pull yourself to your feet, both animals
are gone.


The space is cool and half-shaded by frequent trees. Shaggy bushes, untrimmed,
surround the park, casting the aura of unspoiled wilderness. A river peeps
through shyly to the north, and a wider gap in the irregular rhythm of hedges
leads your eye west. In the center of the space rises a bare flagpole. A few
people stroll here, chatting quietly or simply walking.

>examine flagpole

Perhaps it's silly to assume it's a flagpole, given the absence of flag at the
top. It's just a pole; a single bole of polished blonde wood, narrow enough to
encircle with your two hands. The unadorned top rises higher than the trees, and
it casts a line of inky shadow across the grass and the more mundane shadows of
the trees.

Something rushes through the hedges, just beyond sight -- no, two things, one on
the other's heels.

>examine shadow

The shadow is a narrow and eye-aching dark.

>enter shadow
The shadow seems too narrow to cover you, but you pass towards it, and through
it, and the darkness does not end, everything beyond is beyond reach and miles
away and dark --

[Hit any key.]


-- And the darkness remains. You jerk around wildly, panicked -- lost in shadow?
No; you are real again, at least, and there's solid ground underfoot.


It is too dark to see.

A sharp, irregular rapping comes from somewhere nearby. Farther away, to the
west, is a jangle of bells; and a thin wailing drifts from the south.

It sounds like something is bubbling merrily on the ground nearby.

>south

You advance through the blind dark.


It is too dark to see.

You are surrounded by a thin, high wailing sound; it wavers up and down, setting
your ears on edge. A rattling hiss is audible to the southeast, a much deeper
rumble to the southwest, and there is an occasional echoing rap from the north.

>sw

You advance through the blind dark.


It is too dark to see.

A steady, deep, and powerful rumble burns just below the surface of this spot.
You feel it more than hear it -- a colorless vibration behind your ears and in
your bones. A much higher, keening wail is audible far to the northeast, and
from the east comes a rushing hiss.

A gentle, irregular thudding sound comes from the dark air.

You can hear something moving overhead, slowly, with a sound of heavy beating
wings.

>get thudding

You turn your head slowly, concentrating on the gentle thudding. There. A
step... the sound surrounds you, seemingly everywhere. You've got it, or it's
got you, or something.

A thing flaps slowly away into the silent dark.

>ne

You advance through the blind dark. The gentle thudding seems to keep pace about
you.


It is too dark to see.

You are surrounded by a thin, high wailing sound; it wavers up and down, setting
your ears on edge. A rattling hiss is audible to the southeast, a much deeper
rumble to the southwest, and there is an occasional echoing rap from the north.

A gentle, irregular thudding sound envelops you.

You become aware of something thrumming; a bare high tone that thrusts
delicately behind your eyes. You shake your head, but it strengthens, becoming a
vibrating chord somewhere overhead.

>sing to box

You essay a few notes, holding the box close to your mouth. The sound is
immense: a resonant thrum, echoing you in harmonics that shift subtly with your
voice.

Above you, the chord  in harmony with your note. A white pain flashes
across your eyes, and then the chord is gone.

>north

You advance through the blind dark. The gentle thudding seems to keep pace about
you.


It is too dark to see.

A sharp, irregular rapping comes from somewhere nearby. Farther away, to the
west, is a jangle of bells; and a thin wailing drifts from the south.

It sounds like something is bubbling merrily on the ground nearby.

A gentle, irregular thudding sound envelops you.

>west

You advance through the blind dark. The gentle thudding seems to keep pace about
you.


It is too dark to see.

You are nearly deafened by unseen clangor. A thousand bells might be roiling a
foot above your head. The noise is dampened to the east, where you can hear an
occasional sharp rap, and to the north, where a echoing plipping noise gives the
impression of dripping water.

You can hear something moving overhead, slowly, with a sound of heavy beating
wings.

A gentle, irregular thudding sound envelops you.

A thing flaps slowly away into the silent dark.

>north

You advance through the blind dark. The gentle thudding seems to keep pace about
you.


It is too dark to see.

A metallic plopping sound resonates here, over and over again, in several
pitches and at several rates. You could easily believe that you were surrounded
by dripping fountains, although the ground underfoot seems to be no damper than
usual for this place. Bells jangle somewhere to the south, and the plipping
grows more intense to the northeast.

A gentle, irregular thudding sound envelops you.

>drop thudding

You step quickly to one side, leaving the gentle thudding behind.

>get low plooping

You turn your head slowly, concentrating on the low plooping. There. A step...
the sound surrounds you, seemingly everywhere. You've got it, or it's got you,
or something.

>south

You begin to move through the blind dark, towards the bells. The low plooping
sound keeps pace with you... and as you move, something  behind you. You
whirl, as a cascade of dripping sounds rolls over you from the northeast. For a
moment you're nearly certain of drowning... but nothing touches you; and then
much of the plipping is gone, including your lowest note. A murmur of human
voices now drifts from the northeast.

>get thudding

You turn your head slowly, concentrating on the gentle thudding. There. A
step... the sound surrounds you, seemingly everywhere. You've got it, or it's
got you, or something.

>ne

You advance through the blind dark. The gentle thudding seems to keep pace about
you.


It is too dark to see.

Voices seem to surround you, but you cannot make out the words, or even
determine whether the language is one you understand. A rapid sound of dripping
water comes from the southwest, and there are constant violent crashes to the
east.

A gentle, irregular thudding sound envelops you.

>east

You advance through the blind dark. The gentle thudding seems to keep pace about
you.


It is too dark to see.

The crash of shattering glass jars you, over and over, from somewhere near here.
Farther to the west you hear voices, apparently unconcerned; to the south pulses
an irregular thudding.

A gentle, irregular thudding sound envelops you.

>south

You move towards the distant thudding sound. The gentle thudding around you
keeps pace, and the two rhythms blend imperceptibly.


It is too dark to see.

The thudding that envelops you is quiet and very, very regular. Beyond the
pulse, dimly, you can make out smashing glass somewhere to the north. To the
southeast is a more immediate cacophony of squeals and blares.

>se

You advance through the blind dark.


It is too dark to see.

You are surrounded by the shrieks of the damned. Or something worse; who knows
what might lurk in this chain of worlds? Blares, squeals, and soft snarling
calls: all tear at your ears without respite. Infinitely more gentle is the
thudding sound far to the northwest, and a rattling, blowing hiss comes from the
southwest. And in the center of the noise, beside you, is a small area of utter
silence.

>examine silence

It's exactly that -- a spot from which no sound comes, whatsoever. As you move
your head, the silence seems to press at you, unnervingly, and then contract
again.

>enter it
The silence  as you move into it. Now all sound is gone from the world,
the black world, and the ground is gone, and your voice and your breath and you
--

[Hit any key.]


-- Out of nothing, you are struck, hard, in the back and neck and knees. There
is no down, but a moment of dizzying instability rushes past you. Then you are
struck again, by a metal floor which jars your forearms painfully; you flung up
your hands just in time.

You lie there for a moment, then push yourself up -- and crack your head on the
ceiling. Ohh. You curl around more carefully.


You sit hunched between parallel metal planes. Your chin is tucked down and your
head still pressed uncomfortably against the ceiling. Dim-glowing traces on the
floor stretch into the distance, however; low as it is, this space seems vastly
wide.

Two objects are resting on the ground here: two short lengths of silver pipe, it
seems, one wider than the other. Each has a bone handle protruding from its
side, near one end.

>get all

length of thin pipe: Taken.
length of thick pipe: Taken.

>hit thick

 The pipe blurs, and for a moment it seems to extend, vertically,
forever. You cannot breathe for the sound. The bounded world blurs vertically as
well, and the metal ceiling recedes into the distance...


The space between these plates is, if anything, fractionally lower than the
first one you fell into. A dim phosphorescent grid is traced out across the
ceiling, marking silent distance in all directions.

There are three more lengths of silver pipe here, just like the ones you found
earlier. Two are narrow; one is wide.

The sound, and the pipe you struck, are gone.

>get all

length of thin pipe: Taken.
length of thick pipe: Taken.
length of thin pipe: Taken.

>hit thin

 The pipe blurs, and for a moment it seems to extend, vertically,
forever. You cannot breathe for the sound. The bounded world blurs vertically as
well, and the metal floor recedes into the distance...


You sit hunched between parallel metal planes. Your chin is tucked down and your
head still pressed uncomfortably against the ceiling. Dim-glowing traces on the
floor stretch into the distance, however; low as it is, this space seems vastly
wide.

The sound, and the pipe you struck, are gone.

>hit thin

 The pipe blurs, and for a moment it seems to extend, vertically,
forever. You cannot breathe for the sound. The bounded world blurs vertically as
well, and the metal floor recedes into the distance...


It is too dark to see. The ceiling is still there, low and massively solid,
nonetheless.

The sound, and the pipe you struck, are gone.

>hit thin

 The pipe blurs, and for a moment it seems to extend, vertically,
forever. You cannot breathe for the sound. The bounded world blurs vertically as
well, and the metal floor recedes into the distance...


The metal floor and ceiling seem a bit farther apart here -- at least, you can
nearly straighten your neck, from where you sit. The floor is scarred by thin
parallel grooves.

Two spots of light shine palely on the ceiling.

Three of the familiar wide lengths of pipe lie nearby.

The sound, and the pipe you struck, are gone.

The stillness of this place is getting to you. You feel... stretched.

>get all

pair of bright spots: That appears to be part of the ceiling.
length of thick pipe: Taken.
length of thick pipe: Taken.
length of thick pipe: Taken.

>squeeze pod in jar

The pod ruptures easily, and an acrid oil splashes into the jar.

>wait

Time passes.

>wait

Time passes.

A drop of oil falls on your leg.

>wait

Time passes.

>break square

The corner breaks off easily along the groove. The snap is followed by a faint
hiss; and then you jerk your fingers quickly away, for a tiny, blue-hot jet of
flame has begun to shoot from the broken edge.

Oil is trickling across your fingers. You glance down. The jar isn't tilted, or
cracked; the trickle seems to be oozing straight from the clay, just above the
smudge.

>light trickle

(with the blue flame)
The trickle of oil flares, then settles to a tiny flame dancing just below the
jar's lip. There is just enough oil flowing to burn, it seems, for nothing drips
farther down the side.

The blue flame is weakening.

>hit thick

 The pipe blurs, and for a moment it seems to extend, vertically,
forever. You cannot breathe for the sound. The bounded world blurs vertically as
well, and the metal ceiling recedes into the distance...


You are still kneeling between unyielding surfaces, much too close above and
below. Long parallel ridges cross the ceiling, perhaps an arm's-length apart,
and disappear into the darkness around you.

Another piece of pipe, a wide one, rests on the floor.

The sound, and the pipe you struck, are gone.

The blue flame is flickering badly.

>get all

length of thick pipe: Taken.

The blue flame sputters out.

>hit thick

 The pipe blurs, and for a moment it seems to extend, vertically,
forever. You cannot breathe for the sound. The bounded world blurs vertically as
well, and the metal ceiling recedes into the distance...


You sit hunched between parallel metal planes. Your chin is tucked down and your
head still pressed uncomfortably against the ceiling. Dim-glowing traces on the
floor stretch into the distance, however; low as it is, this space seems vastly
wide.

The sound, and the pipe you struck, are gone.

>hit thick

 The pipe blurs, and for a moment it seems to extend, vertically,
forever. You cannot breathe for the sound. The bounded world blurs vertically as
well, and the metal ceiling recedes into the distance...


The space between these plates is, if anything, fractionally lower than the
first one you fell into. A dim phosphorescent grid is traced out across the
ceiling, marking silent distance in all directions.

The sound, and the pipe you struck, are gone.

>hit thick

 The pipe blurs, and for a moment it seems to extend, vertically,
forever. You cannot breathe for the sound. The bounded world blurs vertically as
well, and the metal ceiling recedes into the distance...


The metal overhead bends you nearly double, even sitting, as you are. Both floor
and ceiling seem more heavily rusted here; small clumps of phosphorescent moss
cling here and there.

A figure sprawls indifferently on its back a few feet away. His back; it's a
boy, raggedly dressed; young, you think, although it's oddly uncertain a guess.
He breathes steadily in sleep.

The sound, and the pipe you struck, are gone.

Your knee slips abruptly on moss; you jerk a hand out to catch yourself. The
length of thick pipe flies from you and hits the ground with a muffled clank.
The boy slips a syllable of protest, turns on his side, and huddles, still
asleep.

>get thick

You extend a hand towards the length of thick pipe and freeze. Perhaps it was
only the stirring of the air; the child is awake. A thin hand darts out and
snatches the length of thick pipe. The boy clutches the metal to his chest,
staring at you wildly.

>wait

Time passes.

The boy shakes himself out of immobility, and darts a glance down at the length
of thick pipe he holds. He stares for a moment; his eyes are wondering.

>ask boy for pipe

He twitches violently. Wrapping his hands around the pipe, the boy turns away,
shaking, hiding the silver metal with his body.

Then he straightens, slowly. His eyes search yours, pressing at the wall of
understanding between you; they drop to the length of pipe, and rise again.
Moss-light shivers on the polished surface. And -- very softly -- he lays the
pipe down before you.

>get thick

The boy's hand clenches as you pick up the length of pipe. But his face does not
change.

>hit it

 The pipe blurs, and for a moment it seems to extend, vertically,
forever. You cannot breathe for the sound. The bounded world blurs vertically as
well, and the metal ceiling recedes into the distance...

The boy's eyes seem to fade last of all. They watch you, full of something you
may never see again.


You are lying full length on scarred, rusted metal. Your raised head brushes the
ceiling. Is it harder to breathe here? Don't think about it.

A black outline stretches across the metal -- a shadow, cast by the light of
your flickering flame, from... nothing that you can see.

The sound, and the pipe you struck, are gone.

>examine shadow

The abyss-dark shadow does not reveal a form. It reaches far ahead of you,
shifting as the oil flame moves, but the spot it reaches from is empty.

>drop jar

Dropped.

>enter shadow
The shadow remains steady as you move towards it, the light at your back. The
dark  things begin to drop away. The confining metal planes recede, and
you expand in vast relief, and expand and dissipate and fade --

[Hit any key.]


-- You are aware of a hard grey surface beneath your feet.


You stand on a hard grey plane; it stretches without variation around you. The
sky above swirls with distant mist.

You can see a red pyramid and a yellow cube here.

>move brown cube

Something seems subtly different about the cube, as it moves.

>move it

You turn the cube slowly back and forth; and, yes, it changes very slightly as
it moves. Its ridges become more regular as you move it towards the northwest
and more irregular towards the southeast.

>nw

You walk for a while. The ridges on the cube slowly shift, becoming more
regular.


You stand on a hard grey plane; it stretches without variation around you. The
sky above swirls with distant mist.

You can see a blue sphere here.

>move brown cube

You turn the cube slowly back and forth. Its ridges become more irregular as you
move it towards the east and shallower towards the west.

>west

You walk for a while. The ridges on the cube slowly flatten away, leaving smooth
shaded stripes.


You stand on a hard grey plane; it stretches without variation around you. The
sky above swirls with distant mist.

You can see a blue cube and a yellow cone here.

>move brown cube

You turn the cube slowly back and forth. Its stripes become fainter as you move
it towards the southeast and slightly bumpy towards the northwest.

>se

You walk for a while. The stripes on the cube slowly fade to a uniform brown.


You stand on a hard grey plane; it stretches without variation around you. The
sky above swirls with distant mist.

You can see two green pyramids here.

>move brown cube

You turn the cube slowly back and forth. Its coloring becomes somewhat banded as
you move it towards the northeast and paler towards the southwest.

>sw

You walk for a while. The cube's brown color slowly pales to tan.


You stand on a hard grey plane; it stretches without variation around you. The
sky above swirls with distant mist.

You can see a red pyramid and a yellow cube here.

>move brown cube

You can't see any such thing.

>move tan cube

You turn the cube slowly back and forth. Its coloring becomes more intense as
you move it towards the southwest and paler towards the northeast.

>ne

You walk for a while. The last trace of color fades from the cube; and you
notice, a moment later, that no new objects are breaking the grey monotony.


You stand on a hard grey plane; it stretches without variation around you. The
sky above swirls with distant mist.

Light sweeps in from all around, condensing, brightening into a ring which
hovers before you.

>examine ring

A ring of translucent brightness hangs before you, horizontal, twin to the dark
ring you saw elsewhere. Edges seem to glitter within it in crystalline array;
you can make no sense of them.

>enter it

You step forward, against some invisible resistance. But the white cube in your
hands is pulled forward, instead; it jerks from your grasp. The white cube
swings into a slow midair oscillation before the ring.

Strange, distorted sounds echo from the cube as it moves.

>enter it

Bracing against a sudden invisible attraction, you cross the boundary of the
ring. It writhes suddenly and collapses inward --



Moments later, you are pulling yourself to your feet; pulling together shreds of
your thoughts; grasping frantically for speech and language, for the distorted
words of the white cube have come into focus at last...

The words are what they have been from the beginning (and you feel every shape
in the world shift in its balance):



>no
(to the white cube)
Your simple refusal is overborne by a voice that echoes from you like weary
stone:



The cube shivers to silent dust. The band of light spreads out, away from you,
fading back into the eternal grey. And a distant darkness recedes into the
swirling mists. You gaze up into those mists -- every breath is an ache in your
chest -- and wait for a glimpse of the distant, simple lights of home --

[Hit any key.]


The sun's glow has faded in the west of the sky. The crowd outside the theater
shifts, murmuring; you push a little forward, out from under the theater
portico. A hot, crowded evening to a hotter, crowded day. But is that the start
of a breeze? You fan yourself hopefully with the paper in your hand -- a
playbill for  that you must have latched onto in the dark.

Never mind. It's the moment of the almost-conjunction. People gasp, or sigh. The
two moons are swinging past each other, seeming to glow in each other's light;
closer, closer, not quite touching... and away again. So near, yet --

Someone is standing there, a few paces ahead, rapt in the sky. Curve of chin.
Long hair, black in the moonslight. To hell with the theater. Dawn is distant
yet, so you move nearer to her, into the first cool smoky breeze of autumn.

    

Would you like to RESTART, RESTORE a saved game, see the AFTERWORD, or QUIT?
