spawn dfrotz -m plunderedhearts-r26-s870730.z3
Using normal formatting.
Loading plunderedhearts-r26-s870730.z3.


>SHOOT THE PIRATE
Trembling, you fire the heavy arquebus. You hear its loud report over the
roaring wind, yet the dark figure still approaches. The gun falls from your
nerveless hands.
   "You won't kill me," he says, stepping over the weapon. "Not when I am the
only protection you have from Jean Lafond."
   Chestnut hair, tousled by the wind, frames the tanned oval of his face. Lips
curving, his eyes rake over your inadequately dressed body, the damp chemise
clinging to your legs and heaving bosom, your gleaming hair. You are intensely
aware of the strength of his hard seaworn body, of the deep sea blue of his
eyes. And then his mouth is on yours, lips parted, demanding, and you arch into
his kiss...
   He presses you against him, head bent. "But who, my dear," he whispers into
your hair, "will protect you from me?"

[Press RETURN or ENTER to begin.]



PLUNDERED HEARTS
Infocom interactive fiction
Copyright (c) 1987 by Infocom, Inc. All rights reserved.
PLUNDERED HEARTS is a trademark of Infocom, Inc.
Release 26 / Serial number 870730

LATE ONE SPRING NIGHT IN THE WEST INDIES...

   A crash overhead! Pirates are boarding the Lafond Deux! The first mate
hurries you into Captain Davis's cabin.

   "Good, you brought the girl," Davis smirks. "She'll keep the pirates busy.
She was only a tool of Lafond's, anyway. Let me just find that cof--" A man on
deck screams in agony and Davis starts. "Let's go." The captain thrusts you on
the bed and walks out, locking the door.
   His laugh echoes. "Best get comfortable, girl. You're likely to be there for
the rest of your life."

Cabin, on the bed
   You are in an officer's cabin, lit by the firelight glowing through a
porthole. A door is to starboard. Except for the built-in bed, the room seems to
have been emptied thoroughly, if hurriedly.

>get up

You get out of the bed.

>inventory

You have your reticule (hanging from your wrist). It seems that your reticule
contains smelling salts and a banknote. You are wearing your kid slippers, a
linen chemise and a cotton frock.
   "Aaieeee!" echoes a scream, followed by several grunts and thumps.

>look under bed

You can see a coffer under the bed.
   You recognize a voice from far away, "Don't take that! Look in the cabin at
the stern -- you'll find some fun there!" It sounds like Davis.

>take coffer

Taken.
   "Cap'n Jamison! We've got 'em!" cries a rough voice.

>examine coffer

It is a small heavy chest, with a lock. It is closed.
   With a creak and a crash, somewhere a mast falls to the deck.

>x smelling salts

You always carry your smelling salts, for emergencies. There is a small tag on
one side of them.

>read tag

It says, "For cases of vapors, hysteria or collapse, revive persons with the
smelling salts."
   "The Falcon! The Falcon conquers!" yells someone.

>x banknote

This is the banknote that came in your game package.

>look

Cabin
   You are in an officer's cabin, lit by the firelight glowing through a
porthole. A door is to starboard. Except for the built-in bed, the room seems to
have been emptied thoroughly, if hurriedly.
   Crash! You whirl around to see the door shatter, kicked by a hulking man, his
twisted visage blackened with soot and blood. "Me name's Andy Crulley, and
ladies learn to love me," sniggers the pirate, advancing toward you.

>hit andy with coffer

With all your strength you whack the pirate over the head with the coffer.
   The pirate stumbles, dizzy. "Avast me, but ain't ye a beauty," slurs the
pirate. His breath is heavy with rum.

>hit andy with coffer

With all your strength you whack the pirate over the head with the coffer.
   Stunned, Crulley collapses at your feet, his eyes rolling.
   The door creaks slightly as a tall form bends through its smashed remains.
"You seem to have this situation well in hand," timbers a well-bred voice. You
catch a glimpse of the hard masculinity of his broad shoulders, the implied
power in the scar that etches the stranger's jaw, and feel tremors course
through your veins. Then you realize how ragged are his shirt, patched breeches
and high boots. Intuitively, you understand -- he is the dreaded Falcon, scourge
of the sea! Alas, your fate is sealed. Resigned, you meet his sea-blue eyes.

>wait

Time passes...
   To your surprise, the stranger bows. "Well met, my lady." His accent is
cultured, his smile vibrant. "I am Captain Nicholas Jamison, known in these
waters as 'The Falcon'. Your father has sent me." He chuckles at your glare of
distrust. "Yes, you are like your sire. You needn't believe me untried -- I
carry this." He hands you a missive.
   "Cap'n Jamison! We've got 'em!" cries a rough voice.

>read missive

The missive is in dear Papa's handwriting:

"Dearest child,
   You are in gravest danger! Lafond is a viper with the smile of a saint, my
most particular enemy. I have only now learned the depth of his deception.
Should Lafond get you in his power... It is unspeakable!
   I have sided with Nicholas Jamison, a sea captain and a gentleman, whose
circumstances have driven him to extreme measures, even branding him a pirate.
Nevertheless, I trust him and so may you.
   You will be safe -- but there is another for whom I fear! My horse is waiting
and I ride to her rescue. Jamison will deliver this to you. Should anything
happen to me, you must rely on him. I remain, with love, your father."

   The pirate captain glances around the empty room, then notices the coffer in
your arms. "Davis's safety box -- my men were hoping I'd find it." He takes it
and nudges the unconscious man on the floor, "I wonder how Crulley knew you were
here? Just his bad luck? He'll be flogged when he wakes."
   The pirate bows. "My lady, may I offer my protection and my ship until your
father is free?"

>yes

You nod tentatively.
   He chuckles. "Brave lady, to trust a stranger -- and a pirate. Who knows,
perhaps I forged your father's signature? Keep by my side as we go to my ship --
few sailors respect a lady's dignity." He helps you through the door.

Deck
   The deck is an avalanche of noise and blood. Lit by roaring fires,
silhouetted forms crash swords, dancing around the screaming wounded.
   Out of the smoke staggers Davis, tugging a bloodied knife from the back of a
pirate. Davis's eyes gleam white from a face blackened and bloody, his lips dark
red as if he has been drinking blood. He turns to face you.

>wait
Time passes...
   Davis leaps across the deck to your side, "Free me or she dies!" he yells,
jabbing a knife up to your throat. In one smooth motion, Captain Jamison draws
his rapier, pulls you free and stabs. Davis slumps into a bloody heap.
   Swooning, you fall into the Falcon's arms. You are dimly aware of being
carried to the other ship, down a short flight of stairs, and laid gently on a
soft bed. When you gather strength to look around, the Falcon has left you in
peace.
   You remain confined to this room, a large cupboard blocking the door. Meals
are brought by a peg-legged old man and eaten in silence. Of your handsome
rescuer you see nothing. Slowly the days pass.

[Press RETURN or ENTER to continue.]

TWO DAYS LATER...

   You blear awake from a bored nap, focusing on something shiny. You discern it
to be a new ring, on a strong hand in the act of tying a ribbon onto a rapier.
   The man with the rapier and the ring turns, "Sorry, I tried not to wake you."
You sit up as if the bed had caught fire, for this is the Falcon, changed from
his rags to a finery all red velvet and white lace -- and in your presence!

Captain's Quarters, on the bed
   You are in the captain's quarters of the Helena Louise, where you have been
trapped these past days since your "rescue" from the Lafond Deux. The room has a



masculine air, with ebony panelling, a large messy table, and a rumpled bed
(upon which you lie). A curtain masks the forward exit and gilded woodwork
decorates the sill of the tall window looking aft.

>get up

You get out of the bed.

>inventory

You have a missive and your reticule (hanging from your wrist). It seems that
your reticule contains smelling salts and a banknote. You are wearing your kid
slippers, a linen chemise and a cotton frock.
   "We have anchored off St. Sinistra," says Captain Jamison, "and I must look
like a guest at Lafond's dance tonight. I will find and free your father, and
then finally wreak my revenge on Lafond." He half draws his rapier from its
scabbard.

>wait

Time passes...
   "I am sorry you have been confined down here, but I don't trust my lonely
crew with such beauty. Crulley isn't the only man aboard with few principles."
He smiles at you, eyes lingering, and takes your hand. You feel your color
rising. "If anything goes wrong, turn to Cookie. He is quite deaf, but capable.
He'll see you through."

>wait

Time passes...
   His look darkens. "You should know why I hate Lafond: Some years ago, as my
brother and his bride sailed to a new life in Virginia, pirates struck. Their
ship was boarded, looted and burned, the women taken, never to be seen again. A
sailor, the one survivor, watched as a man of Lafond's description shot my
brother in the back as he tried to save the women. Lafond has now bought
respectability, but he shall never buy peace." Jamison straightens resolutely,
bows, and departs.

>wait

Time passes...

>look

Captain's Quarters
   The room has a masculine air, with ebony panelling, a large messy table, and
a rumpled bed. A curtain masks the forward exit and gilded woodwork decorates
the sill of the tall window looking aft.

>examine window

Tall panes of glass are inset into the ledge.

>open curtain

You pull the cloth aside momentarily. Behind it, a large cupboard mostly blocks
the doorway.

>wait

Time passes...
   You hear the large cupboard scrape, and turn to see Captain Jamison. "Hello!
I came down to give you this -- my allotment from the coffer." He nods at the
box in his arms.
   Jamison starts to pin a jewelled brooch on your clothes, but, "Devil take it,
the clasp is broken. I'll have it repaired." He folds the pretty thing into your
hand. "And I meant to reassure you that if the men suddenly abandon ship, they
are off to help me. Rodney will stay behind with you." He drops the coffer on
the floor, smiling in farewell, and walks swiftly away.

>take coffer

Taken.

>open coffer

Opening the coffer reveals an invitation.

>take invitation

Taken.

>read invitation

The invitation is addressed to "Davis":

       In Honor of Jean Lafond,
         recently proclaimed
       Governor of St. Sinistra
        A Dance at his Mansion
      Ananas Road, St. Sinistra
Formal Dress and Invitation Required.

   A ball! You haven't been to a ball in months!

>n

The large cupboard is not flush against the doorsill. You squeeze through the
opening between cupboard and wall.

Landing
   You are on the landing of a steep stairway heading up and down. A large
cupboard against the aft wall blocks the doorway to the captain's quarters.

>d

Aft Hold
   This is a gloomy, damp area at the bottom of the Helena Louise. To the fore
there seems to be a little more light, or you can climb up some steep stairs.

>n

You hear a scuffling noise ahead, and scraping up near the ceiling. You would
think it was caused by rats, but for the definite curse you heard before all the
movement.

Hold
   Steep stairs lead up in the dimness to a canvas hatch above. Rats'
scratchings counterpoint the lullaby of bilge water sloshing in the bulkheads,
punctuated by footsteps slapping the deck overhead. You may move fore or aft.
   Behind a high fence, decorated by a sign, are stacked the food and ammunition
supplies; casks of rum, water, flour and salt meat interspersed with kegs of
gunpowder and shot. A closed gate is the only way in.
   You gradually notice a familiar, worrying smell, sniff, and identify it as
smoke. A tiny glow of fire creeps across a stretch of floor -- inside the cage
full of ammunition.

>x cage

The fence is made of thick, finely woven wire mesh, uncuttable and unclimbable.
Except for a gap of about 6 inches over the closed gate, the cage is secure from
ceiling to damp floorboards.

>n

Crew's Quarters
   The crew sleeps, in shifts, in this cramped space under the forecastle. A
breeze blows in on a moonbeam through a grate in the ceiling. A low doorsill is
abaft.
   This area must also serve as sickroom. Strewn about the floor are various
powders and spills of malodorous potions. In one corner, a large blood stain
indicates an amputation; in another is the smear of a leech, dropped off a
bloodletting.
   A small bottle has been dropped nearby.
   A chipped piece of mirror sits propped on a shoulder-high timber.

>take bottle

Taken.
   "I gotta let Lafond know 'e's comin'." Crulley stands on deck above, talking
to himself, his voice floating down through a grate in the ceiling. "First, I do
in the mates aboard-ship, with this and t'other mischief," he grunts, and you
hear a snapping noise, like a taut rope being cut. "Now to warn the boss and
collect me pay. Off I go, har." He dives into the sea.

>take mirror

Taken.

>s

Hold
   A tiny glow of fire creeps across a stretch of floor -- inside the cage full
of ammunition.

>look

Hold
   Steep stairs lead up in the dimness to a canvas hatch above. Rats'
scratchings counterpoint the lullaby of bilge water sloshing in the bulkheads,
punctuated by footsteps slapping the deck overhead. You may move fore or aft.
   Behind a high fence, decorated by a sign, are stacked the food and ammunition
supplies; casks of rum, water, flour and salt meat interspersed with kegs of
gunpowder and shot. A closed gate is the only way in.
   A tiny glow of fire creeps across a stretch of floor -- inside the cage full
of ammunition.

>inventory

You have a bit of mirror, a leather bottle, an invitation, a coffer, a jewelled
brooch, a missive and your reticule (hanging from your wrist). It seems that
your reticule contains smelling salts and a banknote. You are wearing your kid
slippers, a linen chemise and a cotton frock.

>s

Aft Hold

>u

Landing

>open door

Opened. It is a dark messy bed, set entirely within and filling the large
cupboard. A cabin boy must sleep here when Jamison isn't using it. Kicked into a
far corner is a pile of clothes.

>enter bed

Sleeping Cupboard
   The bed is softer than it looks, plumped up with fresh straw. A soft, if
somewhat cramped, bunk for the tall bulk of Jamison. The cupboard opens to the
fore.
   Kicked into a far corner is a pile of clothes.

>take clothes

You pick up the pile of clothes. It separates into a pair of breeches and a
shirt.

>n

Landing

>s

You squeeze through the opening between cupboard and wall.

Captain's Quarters

>x window

Tall panes of glass are inset into the ledge.

>throw coffer through window

You hurl the coffer through the window, sending it and a shower of glass into
the sea. The ledge now looks deep enough to sit upon.
   The end of a rope ladder blows past the window.

>undress

You strip down to your chemise.

>wear breeches

You tuck the linen chemise into the pants. You look a little fat, but now you
can move freely.
   The end of a rope ladder blows past the window.

>wear shirt

It fits loosely, masking your figure.

>grab ladder

You lean over the ledge, but the ladder is too far out to reach.

>s

You climb onto the ledge. The ladder drifts within reach.

>grab ladder

You put everything in your reticule and reach out for the ladder and over-
balance, tumbling from your perch. Your hand closes on a slimy hemp rung as you
fly out over the waves, clinging tenuously, feet free, to the ladder.

On the Ladder
   You are clinging to a slimy ladder, tied to a rail of the poop deck above
you. Not far from your feet, waves kiss the stern of the ship.

>u

You climb up the ladder.
   All air is driven out of you as the ladder slams into the stern.
   Your eyes are drawn to a flicker of light off the sea. Squinting, you see a
man swimming to shore, moonlight flashing off his hook.

>u

You climb up the ladder, passing the halfway point.
   Rebounding, the ladder twists you around to face the Helena Louise.

>u

You climb up the ladder.
   The ladder swings back towards the Helena Louise.

>u

You heave yourself over the stern rail and sink breathless to the deck of the
Helena Louise.

Poop
   From this platform deck you can see the whole of the two-masted ship, shadowy
forms moving about here and there. A railing protects you from stepping off the
deck in any direction but to the fore. A rope ladder is tied to the railing at
the stern of the ship.
   The reefs seem a little larger than you thought before.

>n

Quarterdeck
   No torches are lit, or needed on this moonlit night, except in the deep
shadows cast by the huge navigation wheel. Men move about to the fore, talking
quietly. Under the stairs aft to the poop is a barred door.
   The reefs seem a little larger than you thought before.
   Abaft the wheel sits a large pyramid of casks, held in place by a heavy rope.
   Cannon line the deck, aimed at open sea and the island.

>n

Main Deck
   It is a deceptively quiet evening on the ship, the pirates singing low
shanties as they repair cannon, twist ropes and sharpen daggers. The mainmast
casts an inky shadow over the canvas screening the hatch. A tangled mass of
rigging hangs down from the mast, like many rope ladders woven together.
   The reefs seem a little larger than you thought before.
   Two large barrels stand near the stair to the foredeck.

>n

Forecastle
   Higher than all but the poop deck, this end of the ship commands a good view
of the island; the "crow's nest," swinging above in the heights of the foremast,
would command a better. A tangled mass of rigging hangs down from the mast, like
many rope ladders woven together.
   Imbedded in the deck is a grated air hole to the crew's quarters below. You
can go aft, or forward through a break in the ubiquitous railing.
   Odors of old grease and char waft from a little shack perched behind the
mast.
   The reefs seem a little larger than you thought before.
   You can see a mooring winch here.

>x winch

Made of an old barrel turning on a pole, the mooring winch is used to coil in
the anchor chain. A pair of metal teeth bite the links to prevent it from
dragging out; a lever is connected to the teeth. Something is written on the
lever.
   The reefs are definitely getting larger.

>read lever

On the lever is written "Open Up, Close Down." You notice the lever is pointed
down.

>pull lever up

The metal teeth open as you raise up the lever. The anchor, released, splashes
down into the sea, dragging its clanking chain. After a moment, you feel the
ship pull slightly against the current. You lower the lever to prevent any more
chain from spooling out.

>enter shack

Galley
   This tiny kitchen smells of old stew and yeast. A low door to starboard shows
the way out.
   A dagger is driven into the wooden floorboards.
   An entirely bald man sits here, carving into his peg leg.
   The man looks you over sharply, then winks an eye. "Hullo, boy -- Sam, I'll
call you. Nervous about Cap'n? He'll come to no harm. And if there is trouble,
he only has to signal from that seaward winder of the house -- ye can see it
from the crow's nest -- and we'll be there in a jiffy. Me and my peg are to stay
aboard and guard y--, the Cap'n's young lady."

>take dagger

Taken.
   With a heave and creak of timbers, the Helena Louise drifts a little way back
towards the island. The tide has turned.

>out

Forecastle
   You can see a mooring winch here.

>s

Main Deck

>look

Main Deck
   It is a deceptively quiet evening on the ship, the pirates singing low
shanties as they repair cannon, twist ropes and sharpen daggers. The mainmast
casts an inky shadow over the canvas screening the hatch. A tangled mass of
rigging hangs down from the mast, like many rope ladders woven together.
   Two large barrels stand near the stair to the foredeck.

>x barrels

The two open barrels contain rum and water, you can tell by the smell of each.
They are identical but for the dark stains around the mouth of the rum barrel.

>open canvas

You pull a corner of canvas out of the frame. Steep stairs descend into murky
darkness.

>x frock

It is your favorite old frock, looking rather bedraggled without its hoops,
which you hadn't time to put on during the pirate attack. The worn fabric of the
skirt often catches on things, tearing.

>cut frock

You cut a large rag out of the cotton frock.

>put rag in water

Keeping hold on the rag, you soak it with water.

>d

You glance around to see that no one is watching, and duck through the open
corner of the canvas hatch.

Hold
   A tiny glow of fire creeps across a stretch of floor -- inside the cage full
of ammunition.

>throw rag at fuse

You throw the rag over the gate. Luckily, it lands directly on the burning end
of the fuse. With a sputter and a sigh, the flame dies.

>u

You slip lithely through the canvas hatch.

Main Deck

>s

Quarterdeck
   Abaft the wheel sits a large pyramid of casks, held in place by a heavy rope.
   Cannon line the deck, aimed at open sea and the island.

>enter cask

You crawl into the cask, feeling a slab of something stuck on the bottom. From
this close, you can see the line is getting frayed where it rubs against the
cask.

>cut line

[with the dagger]
The line snaps, and the pyramid collapses into dozens of tumbling casks. Your
cask is thrust into the sea, the dagger flying from your hand.
   Sputtering mouthfuls of salt water, you first look around several minutes
later.

Lagoon, in the cask
   You are crouched in a cask on the lagoon of St. Sinistra. The jungle looms
gray-green in the light of the full moon.
   It seems that the cask contains a slab of pork.

>take slab of pork

You peel it off the cask.
   The current pulls you in towards the island.

>wait

Time passes...
   The current pulls you in towards the island.
Lagoon, in the cask
   You are crouched in a cask on the lagoon of St. Sinistra. The jungle looms
gray-green in the light of the full moon.

>wait

Time passes...
   The current pulls you in towards the island.

>wait

Time passes...
   The current pulls you in towards the island. With a scrape, the cask lodges
in the sand.

Shallows, in the cask
   You are crouched in the cask in the warm, lapping waves of the shallows. A
white sand beach is west of you.
   A skiff nods in the waves, its oars jerking around in the current.

>get out of cask

Free of your weight, the cask bobs and spins in the current, pulled out into the
lagoon. You splash after it, but it is gone.

>w

Beach
   This is a tiny beach, at the base of vine-covered cliffs. To the east, the
Helena Louise floats serenely on the lagoon.
   Immediately north of you, a rocky staircase is hewn into the cliff.

>n

Lawn
   Jungle looms around this clipped lawn, a path meandering westward into the
dense undergrowth. To the east is a folly entangled in blooming jasmine. The way
to the beach is obscure, but visible to the southeast. Behind the folly a thorny
hedge blocks the cliff view of the sea.
   Music and voices float from the veranda to the north.
   Two men stand whispering in the shadows. You catch an occasional word, "Davis
dead... girl... Falcon on Sinistra." The men separate, the well-dressed one
going into the ballroom as the other slinks into the bushes. You see his face.
Crulley!

>e

Folly
   Perfumed by the heady odor of the night-blooming jasmine entwined in the
bamboo latticework, this folly is a cool, dark haven.
   One bamboo slat at the back seems to be loose.
   A bench is built into the wall, circling the folly.

>move bamboo slat

You twist aside the loose slat, wedging the end into the woven wall. The
remaining hole, just above the bench, looks big enough to snake yourself
through.
   Captain Jamison enters the folly, stooping to avoid the flowers dangling over
the door. "I thought I heard someone. What the devil are you doing here! Lafond
is a dangerous man to play with!" Jamison sighs. "What an astonishing girl you
are, my dear. And so ingeniously dressed." He plucks a flower from the tangle
above the door, and sets it in your hair. "The beauty of this blossom is nothing
to yours."

>tell jamison about crulley

"Crulley?! God's blood!"
   Catching his breath, Jamison pulls you against him, his hands circling your
waist, crushing the flower between you. "Darling," he whispers, leaning over
you, "oh, my angel ..."

>wait

Time passes...
   "My lovely," Jamison says huskily. His eyes burn intently, their blue like
the sea on a summer day. A shiver of warmth flows through you, and you tremble
at his touch. The pirate's hands, warm and exciting, caress you, searing through
the thin linen of your chemise. His lips near yours, his breath softly scented.
"May I kiss you?"

>yes

Breathless, eager, you lean into him.
   Tender is his kiss, soft his lips as his body presses hard against you. You
drown in the tide of your passion, swept like the sea against the rocks of the
shore.

>wait

Time passes...
   With a pent-up sigh, Nicholas forces himself away from you. "Now is not the
time or the place to advance my suit," he says, wistfully. "But the night is
still young and you are so beautiful! I must be gone, lest I lose my soul in
you." With an engaging smile he bows and leaves the folly.

>w

Lawn

>w

Forest
   Buried in the subtropical undergrowth, you lose all sense of being on
someone's private estate; jungle seems to extend for miles on all sides of you.
A footworn path curves from east to north here, and the vegetation lessens to
the northeast.

>n

Trade Entrance
   You are on a well-trampled lawn at the side of the house, one low doorway
leading in to the east. Gravelled paths lead north and south into the
undergrowth.

>e

Kitchen
   A firepit in the floor smokes badly, fogging up the depths of this large
kitchen, somehow not escaping through either the south or west doors.
   A blond woman huddles alone by the fire, as if cold.
   The woman smiles uncertainly, then rushes over. "Are you come from the
village, boy? Dost know Lord Dimsford?" She sighs at your surprise. "So he sent
you -- I am his Lucy. It's been so long since I've seen him. Lafond caught me
eavesdropping and now I can't leave the grounds."

>wait

Time passes...
   "I haven't found Lafond's papers, I'm watched too closely. Tell Dimsford that
I -- I'm scared, and I want him to come get me. Give this to him -- he'll
recognize it." Lucy slides a garter down her leg and holds it out to you.

>take garter

Taken.
   Lucy kisses your head and returns to the fire, humming.

>w

"Don't forget -- tell Dimsford," Lucy calls after you.

Trade Entrance

>s

Forest

>ne

Clearing
   You are in a small clearing under the western side of the house. Heavy vines
creep up the wall past a second floor window, open to the night air. Southwest
is an opening in the bushes.

>u

You take a firm grasp on a particularly thick tendril, jerk once to secure it,
and scamper up the wall like some huge tropical spider. It is easy to climb
through the window.

Bedroom
   Lit only with moonlight through the open window, tonight this room is serving
as a ladies' dressing room. An exit lies to the north.
   Draped across the bed is a lovely cream colored watered silk gown. It looks
about your size.

>undress

You strip down to your chemise.

>take gown

Taken.

>wear gown

The beautiful ball gown fits perfectly, the creamy silk bringing a glow to your
cheeks. You comb your hair with your fingers and bite your lips to make them
red.

>n

Upstairs Hall
   You stand in a carpeted hallway, leading east to a stair landing. Rooms lie
north and south of you.

>e

Stair Landing
   The east-west hallway opens here to curve into a grand staircase sweeping
down to the foyer.

>d

Foyer
   A grandiose staircase splits and twists up to the next floor here, framing
the entrance south to the ballroom. Long hallways lead east and west; cool night
air drifts in through the front door, north of you.
   The butler stands near the entrance to the ballroom.

>s

The butler prevents you. "Miss... your invitation?"

>show invitation to butler

The butler takes the invitation. "Enjoy the dance, Miss Davis."

>s

The sea of spectators parts to admit you, murmuring approval.

Ballroom
   Lafond's party is well attended: you can hardly move for the crush. However,
the room is oddly silent, no talk interrupting the musical efforts of the
musicians to the west. Despite the heat, no one ventures south to the veranda,
nor through the opening east. The foyer is north of you.
   Captain Jamison moves up to you, saying, "May I have this dance?" He doesn't
await an answer, sweeping you out onto the dance floor.

>wait

Time passes...
   Jamison grins down at you, a dazzling white smile.
   The steps of the dance separate you a moment, as you twirl around and curtsey
to another dancer. You glide back into the captain's arms.

>wait

Time passes...
   "I haven't found your father. We've long suspected a passage under the
library, but I cannot find an entrance," says Jamison.
   Your hands linked tightly with his and held high over your heads, a line of
dancers files between you and Jamison.

>wait

Time passes...
   Nicholas's hands are smooth and cool.
   Together you whirl around the ballroom, his arm snug around your waist,
leading you gracefully, masterfully.
    Nicholas's grip tenses as he nods to a bewigged man staring at you. You
turn, and the man moves on.

>wait

Time passes...
   "If there is any trouble, and I am unable to help -- a signal from an
upstairs seaward window will bring my men. They can be here in moments," the
Captain says.
   The music ends with a flourish and you pirouette once more before curtseying
to Jamison. As you move to the side of the dance floor, Nick adds, "We should
separate -- I'm sure I am being watched. You would be safer aboard the Helena
Louise. If you slip out the veranda doors, no one will notice you leaving." He
touches your hand and dissolves into the crowd.

>open door

Opened.

>s

Veranda
   Steps lead south from this white marble veranda to a clipped lawn. To the
north a line of people blocks your view of the ballroom.

>n

The sea of spectators parts to admit you, murmuring approval.

Ballroom
   A fashionably bewigged man stalks up to you and bows deeply. "Will you
dance?" he asks, with a light French accent. "Not that you have much choice. If
you turn me down, your father dies."

>yes

You summon a gracious smile, "Why yes, I'd love to."
   "I am, of course, Lafond." He laughs triumphantly and pulls you into the
dance.

>wait

Time passes...
   "So you know I am not your father's friend," Lafond says, offering a hand for
the promenade. "Unfortunately, you are in my power, he is in my dungeon and I am
still King of these waters." A gold ring flashes on his hand. It seems vaguely
familiar.

>examine ring

It's an ancient gold band, with a curious design of gargoyles, curled tongues
extended, on its flat face, with "Sal Sapit Omnia" engraved at the bottom.
   Lafond's eyes rake your body. "When I am ready, the butler will summon you to
sup with me in my room; it may be some time. We will find much in common before
dawn, I am sure. Then I may free your father." Lafond bows as the dance ends,
and kisses your hand. He cocks his head, curious, "You have far less spirit than
your father credited you. He swore you would have him freed in no time at all. A
pity, I prefer doyennes with mettle." He moves to speak with the butler, then
drifts into the crowd.

>e

Supper Room
   One long table set across the north entrance indicates that supper was served
here earlier. West of you is the ballroom.

>n

You scuttle underneath the long table.

East Hallway
   The carpeted hallway turns from west to north here, extending into the east
wing. A long table blocks the way south.

>n

Library
   Everything in this private office is larger than life. A huge portrait
decorates the north side, and black drapes mask the east wall. Bookshelves tower
over a cherry desk, and a massive wooden globe squats in a corner. Music wafts
distantly from the ballroom across the hall to the south.
   An expensive hat is hanging on a knob.

>take hat

As you lift the hat from its knob on the wall, a low vibration tingles up your
legs from the floor.

>x books

Most of the books appear unread, their pages uncut, the spines not yet creased.
All except one, "Treatise of Power" by Sir Michael Villiers.

>take treatise of power

You half tip the book out of the shelf when it snaps surprisingly back into
place. There is a mysterious scraping sound from inside the wall.

>x globe

The massive wooden globe, painted in greens and blues and white, describes the
world as presently known.

>press st sinistra

You press the painted island, and it sinks into the wooden sea. You hear a whirr
and a click and the portrait pops open. A draft of sea-scented air flows in from
behind it.

>n

For safety's sake, you leave the hat on its knob. Best not to show that you've
been wandering.
   You move beyond the portrait into the flickering torchlight.

Stairwell
   Cool salt air, blowing past a torch on a spiral staircase below you, ruffles
your hair and circles south into the library.

>close portrait

The portrait swings shut with a tiny snap.

>d

Bottom of Stairwell
   Flickering torchlight lights the bottom of a spiral staircase. A draft blows
from the east; a passage leads south.

>e

North Passage
   A strong wet breeze blows from a low doorway to the east. A circle of light
leads west. The passageway continues south.

>e

Guard's Bunkroom
   Once a cell, now, with the door missing, made into a guard's bunkroom, this
room is distinctly uncomfortable. Gasps of air are forced through a crack in the
seaward wall of the room. The way out is west of you.
   A powder horn hangs on a long strap from the wall.
   A canvas cot is shoved against a wall. Sitting on the cot is a large key.

>take horn and key

powder horn: Taken.
large key: Taken.

>w

North Passage

>s

South Passage
   You are at the far end of a dank passageway heading north. A wooden door
leads east.

>open door

Opened.

>e

Cell
   This tiny cell is airless and shivering cold, entirely empty of anything but
darkness. A wooden door leads west.

>w

South Passage

>close door

Shut.

>n

North Passage

>w

Bottom of Stairwell

>s

Anteroom
   Two exits lead from this cavernous room, north and south. The walls drip with
wet, forming a huge pool on the floor.
   A crocodile lies half in the pool, gazing at you, with baleful eyes, jaws
wide open. Dagger-sharp teeth glint in the torchlight.

>x bottle

It's a small leather bottle, with a tiny label on one side. It appears to be
almost empty.

>read label

The label reads, "Laudanum drops. Squeeze into a glass of wine to sleep free of
pain and mental anguish."

>put laudanum on pork

You squeeze three colorless drops onto the slab of pork. A patch of salt
dissolves as the laudanum absorbs into the meat.

>give pork to crocodile

The crocodile snaps its jaws shut as the slab of pork disappears into its maw.

>wait

Time passes...
   With an inaudible creak, the crocodile's mouth opens again.

>wait

Time passes...
   Without warning, the crocodile relaxes, eyes closed, asleep.

>s

You edge past the reptile.

Dungeon
   You sense, rather than see, the rusty skeletons of old cages and torture
devices that line the walls of this cavernous room. One flaming torch, high on a
wall, casts mad licks of light into the darkness. Passages lead north and west.
Set deep in the rocky floor is a closed trapdoor.
   A pair of manacles hangs from iron chains attached high on the wall.

>w

Corner
   This short passage turns from east to north to stop abruptly at an iron door.

>unlock door with key

Unlocked.

>open door

Opened.

>n

Cell
   Hewn from dense rock, the cell is a stagnant burrow. Except for the tiniest
glow of light from the torch two rooms away, it is pitch black.
   As you enter, a tall bony man moves out of the darkness. "Papa," you cry,
rushing into his arms.
   "Why, hullo, my dear." He hugs you tightly. "Nick certainly took his time
about fetching you."

>wait

Time passes...
   You briefly explain the current situation to your father.
   "I knew Falcon would do his best to rescue me, once you were safe," he
responds. "Now to rescue Lucy -- Nicholas will have told you about her. You get
him while I get Lucy, and the four of us will meet down at the beach. Just show
me the way out of this maze, and we'll get started."

>s

Corner
   Papa mutters something to himself. You hear an occasional "Zounds!"

>e

Dungeon
   Papa enters just a few steps behind you.

>n

Anteroom
   The crocodile lies half in the pool, sleeping.
   Papa follows you.
   Your father stops, smiling at the crocodile, "Hello, chum, how are you?" He
bends over the creature, and scratches its bumpy snout, muttering, "Never seen
you sleep like this before." It stirs to life as your father walks over to you
by the north entrance. The reptile, waking, lunges after him, choking on its
chain.

>n

Bottom of Stairwell
   Papa enters just a few steps behind you.

>u

Stairwell
   Papa mutters something to himself. You hear an occasional "Zounds!"

>open portrait

You push outwards on the wall, opening the portrait.

>s

You move beyond the portrait into the library.

Library
   An expensive hat is hanging on a knob.
   Papa follows you.
   "A window!" your father exclaims. "I shall creep out to the kitchen. Get the
Falcon." He climbs out the window.

>close portrait

The portrait swings shut with a tiny snap.
   There is a commotion from the west. A woman screams and a man yells, "Stop,
Pirate!" You run to the foyer in time to see two dragoons dragging out the
battered frame of Captain Jamison.
   An officer quiets the guests, "This is the buccaneer who has been pirating
our ships. He had the audacity to come here tonight intending to assassinate our
dear governor. Do not worry, ladies, he was arrogant enough to come alone." The
officer marches after his men. The dancers return to their banal conversations.

Foyer
   The butler stands near the entrance to the ballroom.

>u

Stair Landing

>w

Upstairs Hall

>s

Bedroom

>wait

Time passes...
   The butler walks up to you. "M. Lafond requests your presence in his room
immediately, Miss." He points to the east, bows, and leaves.

>n

Upstairs Hall

>e

Stair Landing

>e

Upstairs Hall
   You stand in a carpeted hallway, leading west to a stair landing. To the
north is an ornately carved door. From the south comes the impression of light
and air.

>open door

Opened.

>n

"Welcome, ma petite." Lafond bows you in.

Lafond's Bedroom
   Lafond is leering, lip curled.
   A lace-covered table crouches beside a wing-backed chair in one corner.
Sitting on the table is a green goblet, a blue goblet and a flagon.
   "Have some wine." Lafond pours wine into two glasses, giving a blue one to
you. "Drink this down. We have a long night ahead of us." He drains his own.

>drink wine

You empty the blue goblet of wine.
   "Good girl," he says, "Let's see more cooperation of this sort."
   Suddenly, the door slams open. It is Jamison, coatless, sword bared, his
shirt ripped. "Thank God I am not too late. Leave, darling, before I skewer this
dog to his bedposts," he cries. The scar on his cheek gleams coldly.
   With a yell, Crulley and the butler jump out of the darkness behind him.
Nicholas struggles, but soon lies unconscious on the floor.
   "Take him to the dungeon," Lafond says, setting down his glass. "You, butler,
stay nearby. I do not wish to be disturbed again.
   "Now that we are rid of that intrusion, cherie, I will change into something
more comfortable. Pour me more wine." He crosses to the wardrobe removing his
coat and vest, turned slightly away from you.

>fill blue goblet

You fill the blue goblet with wine.
   "In private, call me Jean, or whatever endearment you choose, once I have
approved it." Lafond is looking into the wardrobe.

>put laudanum in blue

You squeeze three colorless drops into the blue goblet. You sense Lafond
hesitate, then continue primping.
   The butler enters, laying a silver tray of cold chicken on the table. "The
kitchen wench has gone, your grace. I took the liberty of fetching these
myself." He bows and leaves the room.
   "Sprinkle some spices on the fowl, ma petite," Lafond says, donning a long
brocade robe, his back to you. "They are hot, but delicious."

>put mirror in beam

You roll the bit of mirror around in the beam of moonlight till it glows silver-
white. After a moment, a flash of light responds from the Helena Louise.
   "Tsk. The cook has gone too far. She shall be 'leaving us' tomorrow." Lafond
adjusts the lace at his neck.

>wait

Time passes...
   Lafond strolls to the table smiling slyly. "But you haven't finished pouring
the wine." He tops off both glasses. "Which glass was mine? I seem to have
forgotten." He points at the green goblet and smiles in a way that does not
grant you confidence. "Is this it?"

>yes

You nod.
   "Ah yes, of course." Lafond obligingly takes the green goblet.
   He inhales deeply of the bouquet of his wine, then turns to you. "You must
think me very naive to fall for such a trick. I saw you pour something into one
of these glasses -- although I cannot smell it." He switches goblets, setting
the green goblet into your nerveless grasp and taking up the other, smiling
evilly. "Now you will drink from the cup intended for me."

>drink wine

You empty the green goblet of wine.
   "Good girl," he says. Lafond takes the leather bottle and drops it out the
window. "You shall not need this. You may suffer no headaches in my employ."
   He lifts his glass to drink, but stops. "Your father, for all his idiotic
meddling in other people's business, is not a fool. I doubt you are, either." He
calls in the butler, ordering him to empty the blue goblet. The man reports no
odd taste and returns to his post.

>wait

Time passes...
   Lafond draws near, whispering indecencies. He caresses your lily white neck,
his fingers ice-cold despite the tropic heat.

>wait

Time passes...
   Lafond slides his hand up your neck and into your hair, letting it fall down
your back in thick waves and tresses. He lays everything you carry on the floor.

>wait

Time passes...
   One by one Lafond undoes your buttons. He pulls open your bodice. Your
clothes float to the floor.
   You hear a "thump-phoosh," like someone slumping against a wall.

>take spices

You take a pinch of spices between your thumb and forefinger.
   Lafond runs his fingers down your naked spine, and compliments your body. He
removes his dressing gown.

>blow spices at Lafond

You blow the spices off your fingertips, directly into Lafond's face. He
sneezes, his eyes watering from the heat of the peppers. Reaching blindly for
some wine, he instead upsets the table, shattering a glass. Lafond stumbles
cursing out of the room, in search of relief. You stand up, quickly pulling on
the linen chemise.

>s

You creep over the prostrate butler.

Upstairs Hall
   The butler lies on the floor, prone and snoring loudly.

>n

Lafond's Bedroom
   A lace-covered table crouches beside a wing-backed chair in one corner.
Sitting on the table is a silver tray and a flagon.
   You can see a beautiful ball gown, breeches, a shirt, a flower, a garter, a
powder horn, a large key, a bit of mirror and a green goblet here.

>take all

beautiful ball gown: Taken.
breeches: Taken.
shirt: Taken.
flower: Taken.
garter: Taken.
powder horn: Taken.
large key: Taken.
bit of mirror: Taken.
green goblet: Taken.
silver tray: Taken.
flagon: Taken.

>s

You creep over the prostrate butler.

Upstairs Hall
   The butler lies on the floor, prone and snoring loudly.

>w

Stair Landing
   An eerie battle cry arises on the wind, from all sides of the house, and
Jamison's men stream in from all directions, huddling the dancers in the middle
of the ballroom.

>d

Foyer
   Cookie rushes up to you, looking worried. "Miss, we must find the Cap'n. Have
ye any idea where to look?"

>Cookie, follow me

"Foller you? Anywheres!"
   Cookie urges you, "Think agin. Any idea?"

>e

East Hallway
   Cookie pegs after you.
   Cookie grins broadly, "I knew we could depend on you, lass. Lead on!"

>n

Library
   An expensive hat is hanging on a knob.
   Cookie pegs after you.

>take hat

As you lift the hat from its knob on the wall, a low vibration tingles up your
legs from the floor.

>take treatise of power

You half tip the book out of the shelf when it snaps surprisingly back into
place. There is a mysterious scraping sound from inside the wall.

>push st sinistra

You press the painted island, and it sinks into the wooden sea. You hear a whirr
and a click and the portrait pops open. A draft of sea-scented air flows in from
behind it. Cookie harrumphs, surprised.

>n

For safety's sake, you leave the hat on its knob. Best not to show that you've
been wandering.
   You move beyond the portrait into the flickering torchlight.

Stairwell
   Cookie pegs after you.

>d

Bottom of Stairwell
   Cookie pegs after you.

>s

Anteroom
   The crocodile lies half in the pool, gazing at you, with baleful eyes, jaws
wide open. Dagger-sharp teeth glint in the torchlight.
   Cookie pegs after you.
   Cookie rushes at the crocodile, crying, "I'll take care of this monster,
sweetheart. You run by and do what you must do." He dives headlong into the
pool.

>s

A whip cracks the air. "Flogs me, will ye, Cap'n? Taste it yourself, har."
Jamison groans, half conscious. You rush in.

Dungeon
   You sense, rather than see, the rusty skeletons of old cages and torture
devices that line the walls of this cavernous room. One flaming torch, high on a
wall, casts mad licks of light into the darkness. Passages lead north and west.
Set deep in the rocky floor is an open trapdoor.
   Nicholas is spread-eagled against the wall, shackled in the pair of manacles.
   A rapier lies in the half-dark of a corner.
   Crulley steps leering out of the shadows and cracks the whip near you,
hopping you towards the open trapdoor. "Come to hit me agin, are ye?"

>take rapier

Taken. Crulley snorts, "Be careful, you might hurt yer dearie."
   Crulley cracks the whip near you, hopping you towards the open trapdoor.
"Leave yer honey be, wench. He'll join ye anon."

>fight crulley with rapier

Crulley seems more amazed than frightened of your attack, guessing correctly
that you hardly know the tip from the hilt of the rapier. He steps sideways in
surprise, so he stands at the edge of the trapdoor.
   Crulley cracks the whip near you, hopping you towards the open trapdoor.
"Ye're a tasty doxy to let slip, but no 'elp fer it."

>fight crulley with rapier

You flick the rapier across his chest, barely scratching him. He cries, "Avast
me! Pricked by a woman!" and trips into the trapdoor.
   You peer down the hole to find Crulley hanging in midair, his hook caught in
the rocks a few yards down. He curses and starts to climb up the sheer slimy
walls of the well.

>close trapdoor

Shut.
   Sounds of scraping hook against stone and curses echo out of the well,
muffled by the trapdoor.

>give smelling salts to jamison

You wave the smelling salts under Nicholas's nose. He stirs, sneezes and looks
at you blearily. "How --?" he says, bewildered. "Lafond, did he --?" He looks at
you in growing horror, glancing from your chemise to your face, and straightens.
"Darling, you are an angel, to have gone through all this and then rescue me.
Your ravisher will not go unpunished." He squares his shoulders. "For my
brother, his wife, and your honor, I will kill Jean Lafond."
   He tugs at his chains with a wry smile. "But I must get free first. Have you
the key?"
   Sounds of scraping hook against stone and curses echo out of the well,
muffled by the trapdoor.

>unlock chains with brooch

You twist the pin of the jewelled brooch in the locks, quickly freeing Nicholas.
   Nick kisses you briefly, a butterfly touching your lips, then seizes his
rapier and runs off to the north. Cookie calls a breathless "Hullo, Cap'n" to
him as he races past.
   Sounds of scraping hook against stone and curses echo out of the well,
muffled by the trapdoor.

>n

Anteroom
   The pool is roily with the writhing bodies of Cookie and the crocodile.

>n

"I ain't goin' to fight this beast if you're headin' back upstairs." Cookie
follows you.

Bottom of Stairwell
   Cookie pegs after you.

>u

Stairwell
   Cookie pegs after you.

>s

You move beyond the portrait into the library.

Library
   An expensive hat is hanging on a knob.
   Cookie pegs after you.
   Cookie cocks his head. "What is that noise? Is Cap'n duelling Lafond? There's
no chance he could win as beaten as he is!" Cookie races out towards the
ballroom.
   Lafond's voice is cold, lazy, "You will die, you know, Jamison."

>s

East Hallway
   You hear a duellist leap forward, and swords clash, parrying.

>w

Foyer
   Rapiers click and slide. "Bad parry, Captain," Lafond says.

>u

Stair Landing
   "You must ... pay ... for your actions!" Nicholas gasps.

>e

Upstairs Hall
   The butler lies on the floor, prone and snoring loudly.
   You hear a piece of furniture being knocked over.

>s

Gallery
   You are on a wide balcony overlooking the ballroom. A hallway lies to the
north.
   Down on the dance floor the dancers are pressed in a wide circle around
Nicholas and Lafond. Cookie stands anxiously in the door to the veranda, near
your father and Lucy.
   A chandelier is held above the dance floor by a rope and pulley system, so
that the servants can lower it to light and snuff its candles. Several feet of
rope hang down from the pulley, the excess tied around the railing.
   Nicholas and Lafond circle each other intently, the one breathing hard, the
other casual, sword tips almost touching. Jamison has lost copious amounts of
blood and is no match for Lafond, cool and competent.
Swords engage and disengage.

>untie rope

Untied. The chandelier swings slightly, dribs of hot wax spilling to the floor.
   Nicholas and Lafond circle each other intently, the one breathing hard, the
other casual, sword tips almost touching. Jamison has lost copious amounts of
blood and is no match for Lafond, cool and competent.
You hear metal scrape metal. A woman gasps.

>take rope

Pray describe what you intend to do with the rope.
   Someone calls out, "We've got the Dimsford girl, Governor" -- lying, of
course, since you're obviously free. But Nick glances towards the voice,
missteps, and slips in his own blood, falling backwards to the floor, his rapier
skittering aside.

>go down with rope
"Aaieeee!" The cry comes uncalled to your lips as you swoop down from the
balcony, petticoats flying, on the end of the rope.
   Your timing is perfect: you slam into Lafond just as he steps into his lunge.
His rapier stabs wildly, piercing Nicholas's shoulder, missing his heart. You
and Lafond roll into a snowball of petticoats and brocade, dropping everything
between you.

   Nicholas shouts, from far away, "Let me go! Let me deliver Lafond to a



'better' world."
   "A gentleman can't kill an unconscious man!" That is Papa's voice. "And
you're in no shape to continue, Nicholas. Rodney -- help my daughter. I'll take
Nick."
   Cookie leans over you. "We must get back to the ship, Miss. Dragoons surround
the house." Nicholas, injured but still arguing, is already on the veranda,
half-forced, half-supported by your father, shadowed by Lucy. Cookie helps you
to your feet and rushes after them, expecting you to follow. Lafond lies nearby,
apparently unconscious.

Ballroom
   Lafond, his wig awry, sprawls across the parquet floor.
   You can see a beautiful ball gown, breeches, a shirt, a flower, a garter, a
powder horn, a large key, a bit of mirror, a silver tray and a flagon here.

>take all

beautiful ball gown: Taken.
breeches: Taken.
shirt: Taken.
flower: Taken.
garter: Taken.
powder horn: Taken.
large key: Taken.
bit of mirror: Taken.
silver tray: Taken.
flagon: Taken.

>s

Veranda

>s

Lawn

>s

Beach
   Cookie, Lucy and your father are moving towards the skiff.
   Nicholas stands alone at one edge of the beach. He has a rapier.
   You splash into the rising surf and pain needles up your leg. Blood swirls
out from your shoe in the shallow water, flowing over a small pointed stone.

>take stone

Taken.
   A shot rings out over the roar of the surf. Turning, you see that Lafond
stands at the top of the cliff, a pistol in each hand. "Trying to sneak out the
back, cowards? You will die like your brother, Falcon. Snivelling for mercy." He
hands one gun to Crulley, standing nearby, and levels the other at Jamison.

>x stone

It is a pretty little stone.
   As the gun fires, Cookie throws himself before his captain. He cries out,
blood blossoming on his shoulder, and falls face first into the sand. Lucy runs
to him.
   Jamison yells up the cliff, brandishing his sword. "Fight like a man, Lafond.
You have drawn my blood once tonight -- let me draw yours."
   Lafond sneers. "On one condition. If I win, your lady comes to me. You will
have no need of her when you are dead."
   Nicholas stiffens, glances at the dragoons on the cliff above, and turns
slowly to you. He says nothing, his face hard, but his eyes tell you what you
want to know. "Answer, my darling. Yes or no?"

>yes

You have no breath to speak. You nod once, never taking your eyes off Nicholas
Jamison.
   Nicholas looks determined. "I accept. So long as my people go free if I win.
Order your dragoons to obey us, then." In answer, Lafond jumps off the cliff
like a huge brocaded bat to land in front of Captain Jamison. "Die then, fool!"
   The pistol, spinning from Lafond's grip, drops to the sand nearby.

>take pistol

Taken.
   Lafond immediately takes the advantage, forcing Nicholas in a retreat towards
the foaming surf. But Nicholas fights hard, jaw set, ignoring his wounds. Lafond
finally loses his smile.
   Behind the duellists, far away atop the cliff, you notice Crulley madly
reloading the pistol.

>load pistol

You pour a lumpy stream of gunpowder mixture into the barrel of the pistol
tamping it as best you can.
   Suddenly the force of the duel turns, Nicholas advancing against Lafond's
retreat. Their blades silently flash in the moonlight. Lafond is pressed back
into the shadow of the cliff, sweat beading on his forehead. Abruptly, Jamison
leaps forward, metal scrapes, and his rapier licks neatly into Lafond's ribs,
like a snake slipping into its burrow. The body of the governor of St. Sinistra
convulses, as in amazement, then sags dead on the sword.
   Nicholas removes a gold ring from the dead man's finger, throwing his own
cheap copy into the surf.
   Far above him, Crulley moves down the stairs.

>wait

Time passes...
   Crulley is levelling the pistol, feet apart, braced by the cliff wall.

>shoot crulley
Trembling, you fire the heavy pistol. You hear its loud report over roaring
surf. Crulley staggers, hit, and falls from the cliff. The gun falls from your
nerveless hands.
   Time stops as you and Nicholas gaze at one another, adoring and amazed.
Slowly he bows and offers his hand.
   Chestnut hair, tousled by the wind, frames the tanned oval of his face. His
eyes, twin seas of blue, devour you with a love deep and true-hearted, and you
are pulled into his embrace, your mouth on his, lips parted, thirsting, arching
into his kiss...



Forecastle
   As dawn breaks over the eastern seas, you stand with Nicholas on his ship,
looking north. "I have nothing left in England," he says. "There I am but a
destitute gentleman, wanted for piracy. Here -- this isle holds too many
memories; your father may have it. Mayhap my brother's wife yet lives. I must
try to find her, either way." He takes you into his arms. "Come with me, my
love? To America -- they tell of endless fertile fields and strange beasts in
that wild land. It won't be easy, but we will have each other. Together, shall
we carve a kingdom blessed with fair children and freedom?"
   You wrap your arms about his waist and lean into him, and smile at the rising
sun.

   In 235 turns, you have achieved a score of 25 out of 25 points.
   Thus you have finished the story of PLUNDERED HEARTS, earning the title,
"Happily Ever After."
   You may start over, restore a saved position, or end this session of the
game. (Type RESTART, RESTORE, or QUIT):
