https://www.walkthroughking.com/text/plunderedhearts.aspx

The Lafond Deux
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Stand up from your bed, then wait twice. Get the coffer that
slides from beneath the bed, then wait again. Hit Crulley with
the coffer, then wait and The Falcon will enter. Wait again,
then read the missive and answer Yes to the question. Wait and
you will board another ship.

The Helena Louise
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Stand up and wait 3 turns while Jamison speaks to you. Go north
to the landing, then open the cupboard and get inside. Remove
your frock, then tear it. Wear the breeches, wear the shirt and
leave the cupboard. Wait here and Jamison will give you a
brooch and a coffer. Go down, then north twice. Get the bottle
and you may overhear Crulley's plans. Go south twice (you may
start to notice a fire here) and open the coffer, then take the
invitation. Go up and south back to the captain's quarters.
Smash the window with the coffer, then go south. Climb the rope
and go up 4 times and north twice.

Examine the barrels, then dip the rag in the water. Open the
hatch and go down. Throw the rag at the fire to extinguish it,
then go back up. Now go north, examine the winch and raise the
lever (to lower the anchor). Enter the galley, take the dagger,
and go back out again. Head south twice and sit in the cask,
then cut the line with the dagger.

St Sinistra
~~~~~~~~~~~
Get the pork, then wait 2 turns to reach the shore. Get out of
the cask, then walk west, north, west, north and east into the
house. Wait here and Lucy will offer a garter - take it. Now
head west, south, northeast and up to reach a bedroom on the
second floor. Remove your clothes, then take the gown and wear
it. You can now go north, east and down.

Show the invitation to the butler, then go south. Wait 4 times
while you dance, then head east and north twice. Examine the
bookcase. Now get the treatise, get the hat and press the
island to reveal a secret passage. Go north, down and east
twice. Take the key and the horn, then return west twice and go
south. Examine the bottle, then read the label. Put the
Laudanum on the pork, then give the pork to the crocodile. Wait
twice and it will fall asleep. Go south and west. Unlock the
door with the key, then open it and go north to meet your
father. Give him the garter.

Walk south, east, north twice, up and south, and your father
will leave. Now go south, west and south. Wait 5 times while
you dance with Lafond (and Jamison is taken away). Wait until
the butler asks you to go to Lafond's room. Head up, east, open
the door and go north. Drink the wine. Now pour wine into the
green goblet, then into the blue goblet. Put Laudanum in the
blue goblet. Get the spices and blow them at Lafond - he will
leave the room. Take the tray and wave it in the moonlight.

Go south and give the blue goblet to the butler. Wait 3 turns
and he will fall asleep. Now go south, west and down to meet
Cookie, then continue east and north. Get the treatise, get the
hat and press the island. Go north, down and south twice to
find Jamison and Crulley. Get the rapier and attack Crulley
twice. Wake Jamison with the salts, then unlock the chain with
your brooch to free him.

Head north twice, up, south twice, west, up, east and south.
Jamison and Lafond will duel. Untie the rope and climb down it.
Get all, then go south 3 times and wait twice. Answer Yes to
the question, then get the pistol, load it and shoot Crulley.
