spawn ./frob --no-colors --no-seed-rand --no-scrolling --interface=plain --no-pause cain.t3
  


                 And the LORD had respect unto Abel and to his offering:
                 But unto Cain and to his offering He had not respect.
                                 -Genesis 4:4-5, King James Version


                 Then ALLAH sent a crow searching in the ground
                 to show [Cain] how to hide the disgrace of his brother.
                                 -Quran 5:31, Sahih International


                 "From this time forth...thou shalt be called Perdition."
                                 -Moses 5:24, Pearl of Great Price


                 And Cain said unto the LORD,
                 "My punishment is greater than I can bear..."
                                 -Genesis 4:13 KJV



                 According to Cain
                 An inquiry
                 by Jim Nelson
                

[Press any key to continue...]  





THE PROVOST TOPS off your brandy and invites you to sit.  "The question has
bedeviled the Academy's Scholastics since this institution was founded," he
says with a weary sigh.  "What is the Mark of Cain?"

The Provost is a gray man, whiskered and immobile.  He administers the Academy
from his padded chair--ratty blanket thrown over his lap--by scratching
messages on parchment and throwing them out the window to his secretaries in
the courtyard below.

"The Academy has already sent two of our best," he says.  "They failed to
return.  We consider them lost.  You must do better."

You, a novitiate Indagator, investigate for the Academy all manner of
esoterica.  Usually the questions revolve around the finer points of philosophy
and science debated by the Scholastics.  This riddle, though--the Mark of
Cain--is monumental.  It is the oldest mystery in known history.

The Provost breaks the silence with a deep and gravelly voice.  "Indagator, you
are charged with resolving this ancient question.  Stand and prepare yourself!"

Summoning all his powers, he claps his hands--and in an instant, you are sent
back in time...to the beginning...

[Press any key to continue...]  


I. A YOUNG EARTH

East of Eden
A fine hazy mist shrouds the sky, making the sun little more than a smeary
torch in a smoke-filled room.  The air is redolent with a sour aroma.  The
world feels fresh and new.

On your wrist is the orbis bracelet given to you by the Provost before you were
sent to this time.  You must not lose the bracelet; it's your only way back to
the Academy.

Before you, a circuitous path plunges eastward into the windswept wilderness.
It is this direction you will need to travel to begin your inquiry.

Behind you, to the distant west, lies Eden.

[Type ABOUT for more information on this game.]

>east
A tree
In a break from the rugged and stark terrain, a magnificent tree rises
alongside the path.  A crow descends from high above and alights upon its
lowest branch.

Nestled against the roots of the tree sits a leather rucksack.

In the rucksack you see some arsenic, some lymph, some black bile, some phlegm,
and some yellow bile.

The Academy has provided well.  This rucksack will you help you with your
inquiry.  As you travel, you should discover more of the tools you will require
to complete your inquiry and prepare your report for the Provost.

The way continues east.

>get rucksack
You heave up the weighty rucksack and sling it over your shoulder.

>look rucksack
This unique rucksack of tanned leather and stitching holds several secured
phials.  Once stored in it, liquids will not spill or mix while traveling.  In
the rucksack you see some arsenic, some lymph, some black bile, some phlegm,
and some yellow bile.

>east
As you travel, your thoughts wander to the plight of Adam and Eve, the first
humans created and parents of all Mankind.

They were brought forth in the paradise Eden.  They lived a life of pure ease,
only to be banished to the wilderness for a single weakness.  This path you
walk would have been the one they followed as they searched for a new home...

A Young Earth
Your journey brings you to the mouth of a turbulent valley and a terrible
sight: The valley walls and floor have broken open, allowing foul steam and
gases from the underworld to escape high into the air.

Here lies yet another provision from the Academy for your inquiry: On the
ground near the magma flow is a pulverulent cloth.

The way continues east and west.  Any travel south through the valley is
blocked by the magma flow.

>get cloth
You pick up the pulverulent cloth.

A great grumbling announces itself beneath the ground, and you find yourself
swaying about as though on a ship deck.  A moment later, the disturbance
ceases.

>look cloth
This pulverulent cloth is sewn for chemists and doctors to carry powders and
herbals.  It's woven to wick away moisture and keep its contents dry under
normal conditions.  Submerged, however, the powders will be ruined.

>east
Your thoughts return to the Provost's words in his quarters:

"Recall that Eve birthed two sons," the Provost told you.  "Cain, the eldest,
tilled the fields.  Younger brother Abel tended the flocks.  Until..." He
trails off.

"Cain murdered Abel," you said to complete his thought.

"The first murder in all of history.  As punishment, the Creator cursed Cain to
wander the Earth to the end of his days.  Cain was marked to prove he
introduced murder into our world.  The mark served to protect Cain from others
taking vengeance upon him."

"Why do that?  Why protect such evil?"

The Provost emitted a gravelly murmur.  "Vengeance was the Creator's."

Approaching the river
The steady rushing of a river comes from the east.  A turbulent valley of magma
and steam roils to the west.

Lying here is a thick tome bound in calf-skin.  It's the Pharmakon, a formulary
and another provision made by the Academy for your inquiry.

This book may be the most valuable possession they delivered for your work.

>get Pharmakon
With a grunt, you pick up the cumbersome and dusty tome.

>look Pharmakon
The Pharmakon is a formulary compiled over the ages, from the ancients to the
modern Scholastics of the Academy.  It's a massive, unwieldy reference of fine-
print, formulae, cross-references, and paper dust.

It's also a compendium of history, knowledge, insight: Wisdom earned and
expressed.

Entries are poorly organized, as the Pharmakon is revised continuously as
discoveries are made and old knowledge found undependable.

It's not intended to be read cover-to-cover.  Rather, it should be consulted by
topic.

While the formulary is organized in haphazard fashion, its initial entry is
worthy of your attention: First Principles.

[To use this resource, try CONSULT BOOK ABOUT FIRST PRINCIPLES or LOOK UP
INDAGATOR.]

>look Pharmakon
The Pharmakon is a formulary compiled over the ages, from the ancients to the
modern Scholastics of the Academy.  It's a massive, unwieldy reference of fine-
print, formulae, cross-references, and paper dust.

It's also a compendium of history, knowledge, insight: Wisdom earned and
expressed.

Entries are poorly organized, as the Pharmakon is revised continuously as
discoveries are made and old knowledge found undependable.

It's not intended to be read cover-to-cover.  Rather, it should be consulted by
topic.

The initial entry in the formulary is First Principles.

>look up First Principles
(the Pharmakon)
"First Principles" acts as a kind of introduction for this edition of the
Pharmakon.  It was penned by Hester IV of Minscip, an old cur and one of the
original Indagatores the Academy produced.  He was also your mentor, and a
trusted one at that.

He uses the opportunity of an introduction to produce a screed on the loose
ethics of your chosen profession:

"More than the what, the Indagator determines the why: the motivations; the
reasoning; the rationalizations; the madness.

"The greatest tool available to the investigator is combining essences to form
compounds, which unlock old memories, reveal hidden details, and even reshape
physical matter.  Researching the Pharmakon is vital to the success of your
inquiry!

"Good luck, Indagator," Hester IV of Minscip writes in his hasty but flowing
penmanship.  "TRUTH is our shared pursuit.  It is ignorance we fight, to light
the way toward a more complete understanding of our fellow man and woman!"

c.f., Indagator, essence

>look up Indagator
(the Pharmakon)
Indagator: The investigator; the observer; the questioner & the doubter.

An Indagator examines all, determines the significance, and forgets nothing.
MEMORIES and RECALL are two of your most important powers.

"SACRIFICE is--alas!--also a necessity of our chosen profession," Hester IV of
Minscip adds.

c.f., essence, alchemy, sacrifice

>memories
So far, you've gathered no historical revelations about your inquiry.

>look up essence
(the Pharmakon)
Essences are the backbone of the Indagator's compounds, and thereby his or her
inquiry.

While a constellation of essences exist for medicinal, soothsaying, and other
scientific pursuits, for the Indagator only three varieties are pertinent:

   * remedy
   * poison
   * excipient

Compounds are formed by applying two or more of these essences to an object or
a surface.  When the correct combination is applied, the mixture will trigger
the desired effect.

If the wrong compound is applied, the mixture will dissolve, leaving nothing
but a sense of waste.

c.f., remedy, poison, excipient

>look up alchemy
(the Pharmakon)
Alchemy is a broad and learned field, but the Indagator has only to be
acquainted with a handful of simple compounds for success in an inquiry.  Those
compounds are--

Here the ink on the page blurs and smudges, no doubt due to some careless
scribe spilling his tea on the page, or one of the Academy's absentminded
Scholastics shaving while poring over its secrets.  (Not that they shave that
often; once a year, perhaps, at most.)

When the blurred ink and scarred paper settles at the bottom of the page, only
this warning remains:

"Compounds may be applied for effect once and only once.  Subsequent attempts
will merely result in loss of the applied essences."

>look up sacrifice
(the Pharmakon)
Hester IV of Miscip writes:

"Sacrifice is the defining characteristic of the Indagator's excipient essence,
of which no other profession uses in quite the same manner or to the same
effect.

"Sacrifice is the defining characteristic of the Indagator as well, for every
inquiry requires sacrifice--in the name of TRUTH!  Onward!"

c.f., Indagator, Truth, excipient

>look up remedy
(the Pharmakon)
A remedy is a vital and promotive essence in compounds.

Remedies are blood, yellow bile, black bile, and phlegm.

It is no coincidence that all four remedies are also the Four Humours.
Understand the Four Humours, and you will understand the use of remedies and
poisons.

c.f., poison, excipient, Four Humours

>look up poison
(the Pharmakon)
A poison is a vital but countering essence in compounds.

Poisons are lymph, chamomile, arsenic, and sage.

c.f., remedy, excipient

Your training at the Academy informs you that you should concentrate on
completing your inquiry, not searching the Pharmakon round and round.

[Don't worry about learning everything the Pharmakon has to offer right away.
You'll have plenty of chances to consult it later.]

>look up excipient
(the Pharmakon)
An excipient is an essence sacrificed in a compound to hold together the remedy
and the poison, which, by their nature, are repelled.

Excipients are salt & sulfur; grease & ash; wax & royal jelly; and spirits &
mercury.

Hester IV of Minscip can't help but add in the margin: "Power lies not in the
remedy or the poison, but in the sacrifice!"

c.f., remedy, poison, sacrifice

>look up Truth
(the Pharmakon)
"The pursuit of TRUTH is the only footrace worth running," Hester IV of Minscip
writes.  "Do not block the way of inquiry!

"And that is all I have to say on the subject."

>look up Four Humours
(the Pharmakon)
The Four Humours represent the balancing fluids intrinsic to the human body.
Every living being contains all four; it is when the Humours are unbalanced
that one may overtake the others, leading to excessive behavior and damaging
thoughts.

The Four Humours are:

   * blood which makes one sanguine
   * yellow bile which makes one choleric
   * black bile which makes one melancholic
   * phlegm which makes one phlegmatic

Note that all four are remedies in the Indagator tool kit.

Hester IV of Minscip adds in the margin: "Early inquiries into Adam, Eve, Cain,
& Abel indicates each is associated with a different Humour.  Learning each
family member's Humour would be a tour de force for any Indagator!"

c.f., remedy, Three Primes

>look up Three Primes
(the Pharmakon)
The Three Primes (tria prima) represent the fullness of Life, the potential of
the human spirit, and the unity of Mankind.  The primes are located in salt,
sulfur, and mercury.

As all three are excipients, they are sacrificed when formulating compounds.
Their very nature represents the nature of the Indagator: SACRIFICE.

The significance of the Three Primes versus the balance of the Four Humours
have been hotly debated since the earliest stirrings of Scholasticism.

c.f., excipient, Four Humours, sacrifice

The scolding voice of Hester IV of Minscip rings out across your thoughts: "Do
not waste precious time lost in the pages of the Pharmakon!  Your inquiry
awaits!  ONWARD!"

>east
You recall the Provost throwing up his liver-spotted hands when you last spoke
to him:

"The historical record offers no clue to the form of Cain's rude mark!" he
said.  "Is it a scar on his face, or the color of his hair, or a horn sprouting
from his forehead?  To know this is to better understand the true nature of
evil, for Cain was Perdition itself!"

This is the question you must answer.  It is why you've been sent back to this
time, the beginning of mankind's existence on Earth.

Crossing
A roaring river of whitewater and coursing rapids terminates your path through
the wilderness.  A lean, frayed rope bridge crosses east to the opposite bank.
Otherwise, your only other path is west, the way you came.

With a showy beating of its wings, a crow swoops down and settles among the
topmost branches of a nearby eucalyptus.

Lying on the river's bank is an oversized vellum envelope with a prominent blue
seal.  You will need it to issue your final report to the Academy.

>get envelope
You take the envelope.  The stiffness of the vellum reminds you of the
Academy's formality.  You think of the elderly and wise Provost, of your
teacher Hester IV of Minscip, and of the steady purpose of the Academy's
Scholastics.  You do not want to let them down.

A crow high in the tree preens its feathers and shakes itself.

>look envelope
The envelope is of stiff vellum folded into shape and held fast with an
embossed seal.

The Provost expects you to break the seal when you're prepared to report your
findings to the Academy.

Choose your time wisely.  You are the final Indagator the Academy can afford to
send for this investigation.  Breaking the seal is tantamount to declaring your
inquiry is completed.

>east
Bearing some trepidation, you plant a foot on the rope bridge, then the other.
Your crossing begins with careful, mindful steps.

Three-quarters of the way across, your fears fade.  Perhaps your time at the
Academy among its soft scholars has left you suspicious of rural craftsmanship.
After all, you made it this far without--

Strands of the rope start unwinding beneath your feet.  You impulsively grapple
for the hand-hold, but it too buckles.  Madly you scramble to hold onto your
possessions as the rope gives way.  You tumble into the ice-cold river...

[Press any key to continue...]  


II. A FRAGILE EARTH

You're washed far downstream before you manage to grasp solid rock and pull
yourself from the river.  You trudge up the eastern bank drenched to the bone
and grouching about "rural craftsmanship."

After some time in the sun, your equipment and essences are dry and intact.
The frigid river has left you shivering uncontrollably, however.

Worse: You lost your orbis bracelet in the water.  Without it, you have no way
to return to the Academy.

You struggle to recall why you accepted this task from the Provost.  You
struggle equally to grasp why he would select you, a novitiate so green in the
science of investigation.  Perhaps after losing two Indagatores to the inquiry,
he found himself facing a dearth of volunteers.

Plain
You're standing on the edge of a flooded plain.  A stagnant pond fed by the
redirected river makes a murky mirror across the plain.  An irrigation ditch
controlled by a sluice gate leads to a distant field of wheat covering much of
the valley floor.

To the southeast is a winding footpath leading up an incline, while northeast
of here is a squat cave set in the side of the bank.

Far to the north, you make out a settlement around an enormous cedar tree.  The
way north is blocked by the pond.

