According to Cain: Walkthrough
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
    * Jim Nelson, jimbonator@gmail.com
    * 25 September, 2022
    * https://j-nelson.net/according-to-cain

Note: This walkthrough will lead you from the beginning of the game to the
proper ending. In-game HINTS are available if you’re stuck. They’re generally
preferable over this walkthrough since they will reveal only a slice of the game
at a time, rather than all at once.

Once the settlement is reached, there are several viable paths one may take to
complete the game. This walkthrough is designed to minimize moves while also
directing the player through the natural flow of the game’s mechanics.

I. A Young Earth
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

After meeting with the Provost, you’re sent back to the beginning of recorded
time. As you travel east, you should pick up everything you find on the path:
the rucksack, the pulverulent cloth, the Pharmakon, and the envelope. You should
also hold on to the orbis bracelet. These are all provided by the Academy to aid
in your inquiry. Be sure to pay attention to the memories stirring through your
head as you travel. Also take note of the crow following you.

Spend a couple of turns perusing the book. It will introduce you to some basic
concepts you’ll need to understand to finish the game.

You won’t be able to cross the rope bridge unless you’re carrying all the above
items. When you’re ready, cross the bridge.

II. A Fragile Earth
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Flood plain
~~~~~~~~~~~
After taking an unexpected plunge in the river, you’re washed downstream to a
landing. Note that you lost the orbis bracelet in the river.

After examining the sluice gate, go southeast. Wear the lumens gem. It’s another
vital piece of equipment provided to you by the Academy. Return to the sluice
gate and note that it is now glowing. This indicates the sluice is laden with
strong memories burned into it in the past. Examine the sluice, LOOK UP OSTENDO,
and search around for the essences you now require.

You will find a salt deposit to the northeast (COLLECT SALT) and a sulfur
deposit to the southeast (COLLECT SULFUR). APPLY SALT AND SULFUR TO SLUICE will
reveal the compound you need to unlock the memory stored within it (and cause
you to memorize the compound as “ostendo,” which you will use later). You are
holding phlegm—it was provided to you by the Academy— and so you can immediately
unlock the memory with APPLY PHLEGM AND SULFUR TO SLUICE.

Cain’s complaint gives you a clue why the sluice is jammed closed. Look in the
pond, remove the wedge, and pull the lever. The pond drains, and you may proceed
north toward the settlement.

Well & fire pit
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
When you reach the well, you’ll notice it’s glowing (if you’re wearing the
lumens gem). APPLY OSTENDO TO WELL tells you that you need yellow bile and ash
to unlock its memories. Since you’re not carrying any ash, it’s time to move on.

At the foot of the tree to the east is a braid of four wooden cups. Take this,
as it’s another piece of equipment you’ll need in your inquiry.

Travel east to the fire pit. The stones around the pit are glowing: APPLY
OSTENDO TO STONES. This time you need arsenic, sulfur, and Adam’s Humour.

Take the ash beside the fire pit and travel west back to the well. EXAMINE WELL
will remind you which essences you need. APPLY YELLOW BILE AND ASH TO WELL will
unlock Cain’s memory about Adam. It tells you that Adam was choleric. LOOK UP
CHOLERIC reveals that yellow bile is the Humour associated with cholera.

Travel east back to the fire pit. APPLY ARSENIC, SULFUR, AND YELLOW BILE TO
STONES. You learn of a compound Adam used to re-light the fire in the pit called
encyp. LOOK UP ENCYP to learn its ingredients, and then APPLY SALT AND ASH TO
FIRE PIT. Gather your dignity while the crow mocks you from afar.

Scarecrow & honeycomb
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Go west and south to the scarecrow. EXAMINE SCARECROW reveals that an ocu
compound will permit you see what it’s fake eyes have seen. LOOK UP OCU, then
APPLY ARSENIC AND PHLEGM TO SCARECROW.

Further south you’ll find a rock cracked in two embedded in the field. Although
it’s glowing, APPLY OSTENDO TO ROCK will only tell you that you’ll need to learn
more about the family before it will give up its secrets.

Southeast is a beehive. TAKE HONEYCOMB will give you wax, another essence you’ll
need in your inquiry. The bees won’t give up the royal jelly so easily.

Hovel
~~~~~
Go northwest, north, north, east, and east again to reach the hovel. Outside is
a bandage; take it. Inside the hovel, LOOK UNDER BASKET and take the obsidian
slab. EXAMINE BLANKETS to find a strand of cornsilk stuck in the hovel wall.
Closer examination reveals this is a strand of hair, and is glowing. You should
TAKE HAIR.

APPLY OSTENDO TO HAIR reveals the needed essences, which are Eve’s Humour this
time, the poison of Adam’s Humour, and wax.

Looking in the slab, you see your eyes reflected back at you. APPLY OCU TO SLAB
tells you that Eve was melancholic. LOOK UP MELANCHOLY tells you that black bile
is the associated Humour. LOOK UP YELLOW BILE (Adam’s Humour) tells you its
poison is chamomile.

Leave the hovel. Go west and south and enter the slaughterhouse.

Slaughterhouse
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Take the knife. APPLY OSTENDO TO STUMP tells you that Cain’s Humour is phlegm.
LOOK UP ABEL suggests that he was sanguine, and LOOK UP SANGUINE reveals the
temperament’s Humour is blood. LOOK UP PHLEGM tells you that its poison is sage.

Although the interior of the slaughterhouse is covered with dried blood, LOOK UP
BLOOD tells you that only the fresh kind can be used in a compound. It also
suggests that if blood cannot be located, you might need to provide it yourself.

CUT SELF WITH KNIFE won’t work because the knife is too dull, but there may be
compound to make it anew. LOOK UP SHARPEN tells you about the novo compound:
APPLY SULFUR AND BLACK BILE TO KNIFE. Now you may CUT SELF WITH KNIFE and obtain
a quantity of blood.

Take a bone off the pile. You’ll need it later.

Exit the slaughterhouse. Travel north and northeast to the landslide.

Shrine
~~~~~~
A boulder of iron ore blocks a cavern in the side of the mountain. LOOK UP METAL
tells you that the vulk compound will dissolve metal. APPLY ARSENIC, SULFUR, AND
WAX TO BOULDER will destroy it.

Enter the cavern. The giant ochre face painted on the wall stares back at you
with solemn eyes. APPLY OCU TO FACE reveals the result of Cain’s and Abel’s
sacrifices.

Go north and take the cinnabar. Return to the face on the wall.

Put the slab in the cave pocket. Note that its reflection permits you to see
into the northeast shrine. Enter that shrine, set the bone on the altar, and
exit. Look in the slab. You’ll see an animal take the bone. Return to the shrine
and search the shadows. (Take the slab from the pocket before you go.)

ENTER CREVICE and you’ll find yourself facing a captive badger. Cut the tether
to free the badger. Take the grease.

APPLY OSTENDO TO STAIN. Using the Pharmakon, you learn that you hold the
necessary ingredients: APPLY PHLEGM, LYMPH, AND WAX TO STAIN.

Exit the hidden room, exit the shrine, and exit the cavern. Go southwest, east,
and south to the workshop tent.

Down the well
~~~~~~~~~~~~~
The rope is securely tied to the center post. CUT KNOT will release the rope,
which you should take.

Leave the tent and travel west to the well. TIE ROPE TO CROSSBEAM and CLIMB DOWN WELL.

To the north you’ll discover a corpse. Examine it to discover his orbis
bracelet. You may put the bracelet on the corpse or hold on to it. That decision
is between you and your conscience.

Go south and southeast, take the jug, and then south to the chamomile field.
COLLECT CHAMOMILE.

You can now unlock the strand of hair: APPLY BLACK BILE, CHAMOMILE, AND WAX TO HAIR.

Return to the rope and climb up. Be sure to take the rope before you move on.

Royal jelly & sage
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Travel east to the fire pit, take a chunk of charcoal, travel west, south,
south, and southeast to the beehive. Take the royal jelly and move with some
haste northwest to the oat field, where the crow has another good laugh at your
expense.

You may now travel south to the sage field: COLLECT SAGE. Travel south to the
mountains.

Mountains
~~~~~~~~~
The obsidian slab fits perfectly in the obsidian block’s scar, causing the block
to glow. APPLY OSTENDO TO BLOCK. You should be able to use the Pharmakon to
deduce the necessary remedy and poison. The “binding excipient” is grease, the
only excipient in the book so described, and the “Body of the Three Primes” is
salt: APPLY BLACK BILE, SAGE, GREASE, AND SALT TO BLOCK.

Examine the scratches on the block. Now you know they are actually writing. LOOK
UP LANGUAGE tells you about the glos compound: APPLY BLOOD, CHAMOMILE, GREASE,
AND WAX TO SCRATCHES. The scratches tell you the necessary directions for
traveling up the mountain maze.

GO UP to the trailhead and follow the directions: Southwest, southeast, east,
and then north.

III. An Uncertain Earth
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Go southeast to the camp. Get the fire going: APPLY ENCYP TO FIRE PIT. Put the
clay jug under the spout. Pull the lever and wait a couple of turns. The jug is
now full of spirits (aqua vitae). Take the jug.

Go northwest and then south. Tie the rope to the forge and thread the rope
through the pulley. Pull the rope to move the forge over the magma pool. Put the
cinnabar in the chimney and wait a few turns. Take the mercury.

Go north and down the mountain. Travel north to the foot of the great tree, then
east and south. Enter the slaughterhouse. You can now unlock its memory: APPLY
BLOOD, SAGE, AND SALT TO STUMP. Use the MEMORIES command to verify you’ve
learned the Humours of all four family members.

Exit the slaughterhouse. Go west and south to the clearing. You’ve now learned
enough about the family’s history to learn the secrets stored here. APPLY
OSTENDO TO ROCK.

LOOK UP THREE PRIMES and read about its trio of essences to learn which
represents “Spirit.” APPLY LYMPH, SAGE, ROYAL JELLY, SPIRITS, AND MERCURY TO
ROCK to witness the first murder in Man’s history.

All that’s left to do in the settlement is follow Cain’s trail. Travel southwest.

IV. A Wandering Earth
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Go northwest to the field of thorns and thistle. APPLY GLOS TO SIGN.

Southwest is a tunnel. Enter it and—

You’re trapped underground. APPLY ENCYP TO TORCH to shine some light on your
predicament. Vulk won’t melt away rust, so APPLY NOVO TO BAR to make it like
new, then APPLY VULK TO BAR to make it disappear.

Go west and examine the portrait. The crushed wood chest won’t open. APPLY OCU
TO PAINTING not only allows you to see what it has witnessed, but also to hear
Abel’s perspective for once.

The revelation offers a clue to opening the chest. You could not collect any oil
from the vines, but you may have a lubricant of your own: APPLY GREASE TO CHEST.
Open it and be rewarded with well-deserved praise from Hester IV of Minscip himself.

Go west to a dazzling sight of a garden paradise being destroyed. Try talking to
the man. You will learn the nature of the Mark of Cain, which is the goal of
your inquiry. Check MEMORIES to verify you’ve witnessed all sixteen revelations.

Your inquiry is complete. BREAK SEAL to file your report.
