spawn dfrotz -m -s 4 anchor.z8
Using normal formatting.
Loading anchor.z8.








               [Press 'R' to restore; any other key to begin]



You take a deep breath of salty air as the first raindrops begin to spatter the
pavement, and the swollen, slate-colored clouds that blanket the sky mutter
ominous portents amongst themselves over the little coastal town of Anchorhead.

Squinting up into the glowering storm, you wonder how everything managed to
happen so fast. The strange phone call over a month ago, from a lawyer claiming
to represent the estate of some distant branch of Michael's family, was
bewildering enough in itself... but then the sudden whirlwind of planning and
decisions, legal details and travel arrangements, the packing up and shipping
away of your entire home, your entire life...

Now suddenly here you are, after driving for the past two days straight, over a
thousand miles away from the familiar warmth of Texas, getting ready to move
into the ancestral mansion of a clan of relatives so far removed that not even
Michael has ever heard of them. And you've only been married since June and none
of this was any of your idea in the first place, and already it's starting to
rain.

These days, you often find yourself feeling confused and uprooted.

You shake yourself and force the melancholy thoughts from your head, trying to
focus on the errand at hand. You're to meet with the real estate agent and pick
up the keys to your new house while Michael runs across town to take care of
some paperwork at the university. He'll be back to pick you up in a few minutes,
and then the two of you can begin the long, precarious process of settling in.

A sullen belch emanates from the clouds, and the rain starts coming down harder
-- fat, cold drops smacking loudly against the cobblestones. Shouldn't it be
snowing in New England at this time of year? With a sigh, you open your
umbrella.

Welcome to Anchorhead...











An interactive gothic by Michael S. Gentry

(Type HELP or ABOUT for some useful information.)

Release 5 / Serial number 990206 / Inform v6.15 Library 6/7


A grim little cul-de-sac, tucked away in a corner of the claustrophobic tangle
of narrow, twisting avenues that largely constitute the older portion of
Anchorhead. Like most of the streets in this city, it is ancient, shadowy, and
leads essentially nowhere. The lane ends here at the real estate agent's office,
which lies to the east, and winds its way back toward the center of town to the
west. A narrow, garbage-choked alley opens to the southeast.

>inventory


You are wearing your wedding ring, your trenchcoat and your clothes; in
addition, you have in your hand your umbrella.

The pockets of your trenchcoat are empty.

>se



This narrow aperture between two buildings is nearly blocked with piles of
rotting cardboard boxes and overstuffed garbage cans. Ugly, half-crumbling brick
walls to either side totter oppressively over you. The alley ends here at a
tall, wooden fence.

High up on the wall of the northern building there is a narrow, transom-style
window.

>push can against wall


Grunting and holding your breath, you manhandle one of the filthy cans under the
window.

In the distance, you can hear the lonesome keening of a train whistle drifting
on the wind.

>climb can


You clamber onto the wobbling garbage can, precariously balanced. You can just
reach the lower edge of the window from here.

>up


(opening the transom window first)
(closing the umbrella first)
It's a tight squeeze, but you just manage to wriggle through, dropping quietly
to the floor inside.


Peering through the murk, you can make out the blocky outlines of filing
cabinets lining the walls and a doorway to the west. A window high up on the
south wall lets in a very faint illumination.

>west



Pallid gray light trickles in through the drawn blinds. The office is deserted,
papers still scattered across the top of the desk. The front door lies west, and
the file room lies east.

Sitting on the corner of the paper-strewn desk are a telephone and an answering
machine.

Someone seems to have left a cup of coffee sitting out, half-finished and cold.

>push play


For a while there is nothing but a quiet hiss, followed by intermittent skirls
of strange-sounding static. It sounds like one of those annoying glitches where
the caller hangs up but the machine keeps recording anyway. Then, barely audible
through the static, you detect what sounds like a human voice whispering a
single word:



The machine beeps.

A brief shudder ripples up your back. You remember now, "Verlac" is the name of
this branch of Michael's family.

>east



Peering through the murk, you can make out the blocky outlines of filing
cabinets lining the walls and a doorway to the west. A window high up on the
south wall lets in a very faint illumination.

>look up Verlac


(in the filing cabinets)
Strange; the file on the Verlac property has been cleaned out. Title, deed, all
the papers, all of it gone. There is, however, a set of keys tucked down in the
hanging folder. You quickly pocket them.



>west



Pallid gray light trickles in through the drawn blinds. The office is deserted,
papers still scattered across the top of the desk. The front door lies west, and
the file room lies east.

Sitting on the corner of the paper-strewn desk are a telephone and an answering
machine.

Someone seems to have left a cup of coffee sitting out, half-finished and cold.

>unlock door


You unlock the office door.

>west


(opening the real estate office door first)
The rain is still coming down, so you open your umbrella.


A grim little cul-de-sac, tucked away in a corner of the claustrophobic tangle
of narrow, twisting avenues that largely constitute the older portion of
Anchorhead. Like most of the streets in this city, it is ancient, shadowy, and
leads essentially nowhere. The lane ends here at the real estate agent's office,
which lies to the east, and winds its way back toward the center of town to the
west. A narrow, garbage-choked alley opens to the southeast.

The office door is open.

>west



As the lane winds along from east to west, it narrows until the steep, jagged
rooftops on either side of the street practically touch each other. To the
south, a side street leads across Whateley Bridge toward the center of town, and
a twisting lane leads up a hill to the northwest. A short flight of steps to the
north leads down to the local watering hole.

>west



To the north, a gap in the crowded press of gloomy buildings opens onto a
country lane, heading out over a grassy heath. The main street continues to the
east, while to the northwest, over the top of a steep rise, you can just make
out the vaulted rooftops of the university.

>nw



Isolated and serene within its high, ivy-covered walls, Miskaton University
represents this benighted town's single, if somewhat dubious, claim to cultural
achievement. Founded some time in the early 1800s, the school's reputation and
enrollment have diminished somewhat as Anchorhead drifts further and further
into the abyss of provincial backwaterism. Still, it is generally recognized for
its collection of folklore and esoteric mythology (one of the oldest and most
extensive on the east coast). The Board of Deans was also kind enough to offer
Michael a full professorship upon hearing of his recently discovered heritage
and his plans to move into the estate. Ivory tower, perhaps, but at least they
take care of their own.

There are numerous buildings surrounding this cobbled court, but the only one
you are interested in is the library to the west, where Michael told you he'd be
until he came back to the real estate agent's office to pick you up. Which,
incidentally, he has not yet done.

>west


You close your umbrella, as is your habit after coming indoors.


Shadows roost thickly in the vaulted ceiling, and small, green-shaded desk lamps
cast pools of warm radiance here and there around the library's dim interior.
You pause a moment to let the hushed peacefulness of this place soak in -- a
welcome relief from the unsettling events of the day. An exit lies east, and a
small alcove to the north houses the circulation counter.

Peering through the shadows, you spot your husband sitting at one of the reading
desks, absorbed in some sort of weighty tome and clearly oblivious to the time.

>read book


Michael looks up, startled, then realizes it's you and smiles. "Hi, hon," he
says, closing the book and stretching. Then he glances at his watch. "Good
grief, what happened to the time? I'm so sorry -- I just lost track." He smiles
sheepishly.

"Well?" he asks. "Did you get the keys?"

>show keys to Michael


"Great!" says Michael. "You hang on to that. Just a second, I'll put this back."
He takes the book up to the circulation desk and hands it to the librarian.
"Okay then," he says, returning, "let's go."

Michael suddenly smacks his forehead. "Oh, crap, I forgot to tell you. The car
broke down." He spreads his hands. "I don't know what happened to it; one second
I'm parking outside, the next second it dies and I can't get it started again. I
called a tow truck, but the nearest garage is up in Arkham. They picked it up
but won't be able to look at it until next week at the earliest. Anyway, it
looks like we'll have to walk back to the house." He offers you a lame smile.
"You can hold the umbrella."



>east
The rain is still coming down, so you open your umbrella.


Isolated and serene within its high, ivy-covered walls, Miskaton University
represents this benighted town's single, if somewhat dubious, claim to cultural
achievement. Founded some time in the early 1800s, the school's reputation and
enrollment have diminished somewhat as Anchorhead drifts further and further
into the abyss of provincial backwaterism. Still, it is generally recognized for
its collection of folklore and esoteric mythology (one of the oldest and most
extensive on the east coast). The Board of Deans was also kind enough to offer
Michael a full professorship upon hearing of his recently discovered heritage
and his plans to move into the estate. Ivory tower, perhaps, but at least they
take care of their own.

There are numerous buildings surrounding this cobbled court, but the only one
you are interested in is the library to the west.

Michael hurries to catch up.

"We really should be getting on to the house, don't you think?" asks Michael.
"It's a bit rainy out."



>se



To the north, a gap in the crowded press of gloomy buildings opens onto a
country lane, heading out over a grassy heath. The main street continues to the
east, while to the northwest, over the top of a steep rise, you can just make
out the vaulted rooftops of the university.

Michael hurries to catch up.

The clouds overhead mutter restlessly to themselves.

>east



As the lane winds along from east to west, it narrows until the steep, jagged
rooftops on either side of the street practically touch each other. To the
south, a side street leads across Whateley Bridge toward the center of town, and
a twisting lane leads up a hill to the northwest. A short flight of steps to the
north leads down to the local watering hole.

Michael strolls along after you.

The clouds overhead mutter restlessly to themselves.

>south



A hoary monument of crumbling, moss-eaten flagstones, Whateley Bridge is
possibly older than any other structure in the entire city. Ponderously it spans
the dark, torpid waters of the Miskaton River, connecting the north and south
halves of the city and occasionally raining bits of gravel and mortar from its
underside into the water. It looks just wide enough for two cars to pass each
other between the flanking stone parapets, but you wouldn't volunteer to try it.

Michael follows you.

>south



A wide expanse of uneven pavestones lies open to the sky, bordered on all sides
by the leaning, steep-roofed architecture that looms over everything in this
city. The municipal courthouse stands at the south end of the square, next to
the mouth of a dark, narrow alley to the southwest. Avenues to the west and east
lead back into the cramped and ingrown streets, while to the north lies Whateley
Bridge.

In the center of the square, rising from a circular lawn of unhealthy-looking
grass and weeds, stands a strange, stone obelisk. It seems to be a monument of
some sort, although you can see no plaque or marker anywhere near it.

Michael hurries to catch up.

>east



A low, irregular brick wall to the north divides this street from the steep,
mud-slick banks of the sinuous Miskaton, while a rusty iron gate provides access
to a precarious flight of stone steps leading down the bank to the water's edge.
The street bends south here, turning into a misty avenue between the trees. The
town square lies west, a vacant lot lies east.

Michael hurries to catch up.

>south



Perhaps it is merely the effect of some unwholesome vapour rising from the murky
waters of the nearby Miskaton, but the temperature along this street seems
perceptibly cooler than normal, even for a New England autumn. Two dirt roads
lead south and southwest, into the dense woods at the edge of town.

A clammy mist hangs thickly in the air, seeping through your clothes and making
you shiver.

Michael strolls along after you.

>sw


As you walk through, the mists part before your husband almost deferentially,
quickly dissolving away into nothing.

The ground begins to rise sharply as the road climbs up into the hills south of
town.


The treeline falls away on the north side of this northwest-northeast bend in
the road, giving way to a panoramic view of the Miskaton River Valley and the
grubby little town of Anchorhead nestled within it. From here you can see the
paper mill almost directly to the north; the solitary lighthouse and surrounding
ocean to the northeast; and the dilapidated stone church below you to the east.
Winding through it all is the oily black ribbon of the Miskaton, and almost
directly in the center lies the little clearing of Town Square. You can just
make out the shape of the obelisk from here.

Michael hurries to catch up.

>nw



The lane runs up from the southeast and ends at a wide clearing surrounded by
gnarled and ancient trees. A wide, curving driveway runs up to the front door of
your house, which lies north.

The fabled Verlac family mansion looms before you in the gloom, its dark
creaking presence dominating the clearing and, somehow, even though it is not
visible through the trees, the entire valley. The foreboding shadow of the
Verlacs seems to enshroud all of Anchorhead from here.

A typewritten notice has been attached to the front door.

Michael follows you.

"Well," says Michael, "this must be the place. We finally made it, honey. We're
home!"

>unlock door


You unlock the front door.

>north
(opening the front door first)
You close your umbrella, as is your habit after coming indoors.


Although it appears spacious from the outside, the house's interior feels
cramped and gloomy. The walls seem too close together; the ceiling is too high.
The doorways, leading in several directions, are narrow and filled with shadows,
and the stairs leading up to the second floor are steep and rickety. This is not
a house that makes you feel welcome. It is a house that makes you feel tiny and
timid, and afraid of dark places. It is a house that makes you feel alone.

The front door stands open to the south.

Carelessly stacked in a towering heap in the middle of the room are all your
luggage and belongings, which you had sent ahead through a moving company before
driving up to Massachusetts. Everything you own is boxed away and piled up in
the middle of the floor. The reality of this move finally slams home as you
stare at the sprawling jumble of stuff, and suddenly you feel very lost and
adrift.

Night has now undeniably fallen, and the house is very, very dark. There is



probably just enough residual ambience to feel your way upstairs to the bedroom,
but the rest of the house is a tenebrous maze of shadows, and any exploring
would probably best be done in the morning.

Michael strolls along after you.

Michael stretches his arms and yawns. "Well," he says, "I think I'm going to
turn in. There'll be plenty of time to unpack and explore tomorrow. Good night,
hon." He kisses you on the cheek. "Don't stay up too late."

And with that, he goes upstairs.

>close door


You close the front door.

>lock door


You lock the front door.

>up



A narrow hallway runs east, from the top of the stairs down the length of the
house. To the north, directly opposite the stairs, is the master bedroom.

>north



The master bedroom is a picture-postcard of rustic New England charm. Faded
sketches of rural landscapes adorn the walls; a beautifully carved dressing
mirror stands in one corner; an old-fashioned accordion radiator gurgles quietly
beneath the window. The most striking feature, an enormous, antique, four-poster
bed, must be the largest piece of furniture in the house.

Michael is curled up in bed, sound asleep.

If it weren't for this hopelessly backwater town and the disturbing
circumstances surrounding the house, you'd say this was your dream home. Even
so, as much as you would like to relax and enjoy the comforts of a fully
furnished historical New England estate, you can't help but be put off by the
shady aura surrounding the family that used to live here. The last of the line,
you remind yourself, recently committed suicide after killing his wife and two
daughters with a shotgun. Involuntarily you shiver, glancing nervously at the
doorways to the south and west.

>undress


You take off the trenchcoat.
You take off the clothes.

>drop all


keyring: Dropped.
trenchcoat: Dropped.
clothes: Dropped.
umbrella: Dropped.

>west



A small chamber of cold, white tile and floral-print wallpaper. It sports a
genuine, whitewashed, claw-foot bathtub with a shower attachment, which is a
definite plus. The bedroom lies east.

>bathe


Grateful for the opportunity to relax, you draw a hot bath (the water, at least,
is running, even if nothing else in the house is) and soak. The tension of this
strange day melts gently from your body. After thirty minutes or so, you begin
to feel normal again. After forty-five, you begin to think you might be able to
adjust to this place after all. By then the water has begun to cool off,
however, so you drain it and quietly dry yourself off. All in all, you feel
enormously better.



>east



The master bedroom is a picture-postcard of rustic New England charm. Faded
sketches of rural landscapes adorn the walls; a beautifully carved dressing
mirror stands in one corner; an old-fashioned accordion radiator gurgles quietly
beneath the window. The most striking feature, an enormous, antique, four-poster
bed, must be the largest piece of furniture in the house. Doorways lead west and
south.

Your clothes lie in an untidy pile on the floor.

Your trenchcoat is here.

Michael is curled up in bed, sound asleep.

You can also see your umbrella and a keyring (on which are Warning: @get_prop
called with object 0 (PC = 16120) (will ignore further occurrences)
two keys (a key to the house and a key to the cellar)) here.

>lie in bed


Gratefully, you crawl into bed and pull the covers up to your chin.

>sleep
Almost immediately you fall asleep, and as the wind slithers around the eaves
and the house creaks furtive secrets to itself, you drift into troubling
dreams...


You are waiting in your bed, with the coverlet up under your chin, waiting for
Father to come tuck you in. Footsteps in the hall pause outside your door. You
close your eyes; when you open them again Father is standing at the foot of the
bed. His eyes are bloodshot, rimmed with red, and you wonder if he has been
crying. Slowly, he starts to take off his belt.

Only it's not your father after all, it's Michael. He hands you a golden sphere
and says:

"I don't know what it opens yet but I have an idea."

Your reflection is like a little doll trapped inside the sphere. Everything is
tinged with gold. Your face swells and stretches comically as you stare back at
yourself through the curved, distorting walls. Reaching out, your fingers curve
back on themselves... the wall breaks and...

You are running from the eyes, the terrible red-rimmed eyes, through endless,
narrow corridors of wooden slats and crumbling plaster. You stumble through turn
after turn, hopelessly lost. There is a small hole in the boards -- peering

through it you see Michael in the study, typing diligently away. You scream, you
pound on the wall, but he can't hear you. The red-rimmed eyes draw closer;
hurrying down a twisting passage you find a dead end... the wall breaks and...

Outside, you stand at another dead end, a high brick wall at the end of a steep,
twisting lane. Written in black spraypaint...



Behind you, you hear the buzzing of a fly. You turn...













You wake up. Steam billows gently by, and you can hear the sound of running
water coming from the bathroom.

>look


, on the four-poster bed
The master bedroom is a picture-postcard of rustic New England charm. Faded
sketches of rural landscapes adorn the walls; a beautifully carved dressing
mirror stands in one corner; an old-fashioned accordion radiator gurgles quietly
beneath the window. The most striking feature, an enormous, antique, four-poster
bed, must be the largest piece of furniture in the house. Doorways lead west and
south.

Your clothes lie in an untidy pile on the floor.

Your trenchcoat is here.

You can also see your umbrella and a keyring (on which are two keys (a key to
the house and a key to the cellar)) here.

On the four-poster bed you can see Michael's pants (in which is Michael's wallet
(which is closed)).

>open wallet


(first taking the wallet)
With a nervous glance toward the bathroom, you slip the wallet from Michael's
pants.
You open the wallet, revealing Michael's faculty card.

You can hear Michael splashing around, noisily enjoying his shower.

>get card


The shower suddenly stops. Quickly you palm the card, replace the wallet and
arrange the pants the way you found them. A moment later Michael emerges from
the bathroom, toweling his hair. "My, don't you look tempting this morning," he
says, giving you a kiss. He tosses the towel back into the bathroom and gets
dressed. "I think I'm going to stay home and get some writing done. I don't
actually start work until tomorrow, so..." He kisses you on the cheek as he
walks out into the hall. "If you go out today, see if you can find a newspaper.
I want to learn as much as I can about this town."

He looks at you for a moment, and his voice becomes serious. "I love you, hon.
You know that, don't you? I really want us to try and be happy here."

Then he turns and pads down the hall.

You take a deep breath as he goes. You've never lied to Michael or hidden
anything from him before, ever; now, hardly two days into your new life, you're
already sneaking through his wallet.

Oh yeah. You're off to a great start.

>leave bed


Reluctantly, you do so.


The master bedroom is a picture-postcard of rustic New England charm. Faded
sketches of rural landscapes adorn the walls; a beautifully carved dressing
mirror stands in one corner; an old-fashioned accordion radiator gurgles quietly
beneath the window. The most striking feature, an enormous, antique, four-poster
bed, must be the largest piece of furniture in the house. Doorways lead west and
south.

Your clothes lie in an untidy pile on the floor.

Your trenchcoat is here.

You can also see your umbrella and a keyring (on which are two keys (a key to
the house and a key to the cellar)) here.

>dress


(first taking the clothes)
You put on the clothes.

>get all


umbrella: Taken.
trenchcoat: Taken.
keyring: Taken.

>wear coat


You put on the trenchcoat.

>south



A narrow hallway runs east, from the top of the stairs down the length of the
house. To the north, directly opposite the stairs, is the master bedroom.

>down



Although it appears spacious from the outside, the house's interior feels
cramped and gloomy. The walls seem too close together; the ceiling is too high.
The doorways, leading in several directions, are narrow and filled with shadows,
and the stairs leading up to the second floor are steep and rickety. This is not
a house that makes you feel welcome. It is a house that makes you feel tiny and
timid, and afraid of dark places. It is a house that makes you feel alone.

Your luggage is still here, spread out all over the foyer.

>west



Much of the elegance has faded from this room. The huge dining table running the
length of it is covered with a thick gray film of dust, and the china cupboard
standing against the far wall is draped in shadow. Doorways to the north and
east offer little relief from the gloom. For what must be the hundredth time,
you wish you could open the windows in this place.

>open cupboard


The cupboard is empty; the china must have been auctioned off, in the confusion
before Michael was contacted, perhaps. Down at the bottom of the cupboard is a
velvet lining, where the silverware would usually be kept.

>pull lining


You pull the lining back a bit further and discover a thin, palm-sized journal
tucked underneath it. Intrigued, you pull the little book free.



>read journal
It's a slim little book, no bigger than your hand, bound in imitation leather.
The mice really have been at it; most of the pages have been chewed away.

What's left of the journal reads:























The text breaks off as several more pages are missing. the last fragmented entry
reads:



>north



Where once pots and skillets and various utensils hung in profusion, the kitchen
walls are now merely ranks of dusty cabinets and a forest of empty hooks.
Doorways lead east and south, a small pantry lies to the northwest, and the back
door to the north leads out of the house.

Someone's flashlight is lying on the kitchen counter; one of the movers must
have left it.

An odd feeling of gloom overtakes you momentarily, and you find yourself
thinking about the Verlac family's personal effects -- the everyday mundanities,
such as kitchen utensils. Were they thrown out, or donated to charity, or
auctioned off as grisly souvenirs? What about the canned goods? Did anyone think
to take them? The cabinets might even still be stocked. Morbidly, you wonder
what Mrs. Edward Verlac might have been cooking for dinner the night her husband
blew her head off.

>get flashlight


(slipping the faculty card into the pocket of your trenchcoat to get a hand
free)
You pick up the flashlight. It's battery-powered, and waterproof too, by the
look of it.

The flashlight is currently switched off.

>open cabinet


The cabinets are not, after all, still stocked -- much to your relief. There's
nothing in there but an old book of matches.

>get matches


(slipping the umbrella into the pocket of your trenchcoat to get a hand free)
You pick up the book of matches. A label on the side reads, "Water-resistant
matches. Strike on cover." There are six matches left.

>turn on flashlight


The flashlight emits a warm yellow beam.

>nw



The pantry is empty save for a layer of dust on the shelves. A door to the south
leads down to the cellar, or you can return to the kitchen to the southeast.

Leaning in the corner is an old broom.

>get broom


(slipping the keyring into the pocket of your trenchcoat to get a hand free)
You pick up the broom. It's just an ordinary-looking broom.

>unlock door


(first taking the keyring)
(slipping the torn journal into the pocket of your trenchcoat to get a hand
free)
Taken.
You unlock the cellar door.

>down


(opening the cellar door first)
You descend the gloomy steps into the dank cellar.


The old, flagstone walls gleam with unwholesome-smelling moisture, and the
sagging timbers creak uneasily above your head. Ancient, frayed wiring festoons
the ceiling like some strange species of clinging vine. Portions of the cellar
extend south and east into the clammy darkness, though you could always beat a
hasty retreat up the stairs to the north.

One largish bundle of wires leads down to a rusty old fuse cabinet bolted to the
far wall.

>south



Old crates and boxes piled high against the walls make this room seem even
smaller and dingier than it actually is, which is saying a lot. A doorway lies
north; the other walls contain nothing but shadows and dirt-filled corners.

>search crates


You spend some time poking dispiritedly through boxes of second-hand table
settings, discarded shoes and outdated encyclopedias, but the only thing you
manage to dig up is an old cardboard box full of newspaper clippings, which
might make interesting reading later if you can find the time. The only thing at
all noteworthy about the room, in fact, is that it desperately wants cleaning;
there's even a big, nasty-looking spider web in a corner behind one of the
crates.

>get box


(the cardboard box)
(slipping the book of matches into the pocket of your trenchcoat to get a hand
free)
You pick up the cardboard box. It's an old gray shoebox, ragged around the
edges, with the lid missing.
In the cardboard box are some newspaper clippings.

>read clippings


   > (Arkham Herald, August 12, 1956)
     (printed notice)
     (London Times, March 3, 1918)
     (crumpled flyer)
     (obituary)
     (Arkham Herald, June 22, 1973)
     (Arkham Herald, September 19, 1958)
     (photostatic copy)
     (Arkham Herald, April 9, 1935)
     (Arkham Herald, July 7, 1988)
     (announcement)

 [press BACKSPACE to return to game]
   >^H



Old crates and boxes piled high against the walls make this room seem even
smaller and dingier than it actually is, which is saying a lot. A doorway lies
north; the other walls contain nothing but shadows and dirt-filled corners.

A nasty-looking spider web fills one dark corner like some sort of sticky,
fibrous mold.

>drop cardboard box


Dropped.

>wipe web


With a single sweep of the broom, you clear the spider web away.

>drop broom


Dropped.

>get key


(the old-fashioned iron key)
You pick up the old-fashioned iron key. It's an old key, the kind with a round
barrel about a quarter-inch in diameter and flat, square teeth.



>put key on keyring


(the old-fashioned iron key on the keyring)
The old-fashioned iron key is now on the keyring.

>north



The old, flagstone walls gleam with unwholesome-smelling moisture, and the
sagging timbers creak uneasily above your head. Ancient, frayed wiring festoons
the ceiling like some strange species of clinging vine. Portions of the cellar
extend south and east into the clammy darkness, though you could always beat a
hasty retreat up the stairs to the north.

One largish bundle of wires leads down to a rusty old fuse cabinet bolted to the
far wall.

>up


Gratefully, you leave the clammy confines of the cellar behind.


The pantry is empty save for a layer of dust on the shelves. A door to the south
leads down to the cellar, or you can return to the kitchen to the southeast.

The cellar door stands open, revealing dark stairs leading down.

>se



Where once pots and skillets and various utensils hung in profusion, the kitchen
walls are now merely ranks of dusty cabinets and a forest of empty hooks.
Doorways lead east and south, a small pantry lies to the northwest, and the back
door to the north leads out of the house.

>east



A short hallway, connecting rooms to the east, west and south.

>east



A long, oak-paneled room, with doorways to the south and west. Paintings line
the walls, mounted beneath small, shaded lamps that would illuminate the
canvasses nicely if only the electricity were working. Still, even in the
shadowed gloom you can see that all were done by the same artist.

>look at paintings


All of them are bizarre, and most of them border on the grotesque. Alien
landscapes peopled by writhing, malformed creatures; ancient temples built in
strange, eye-bending architectures; monstrous beasts crawling through shadows
that cannot quite conceal their disturbingly human shapes -- these seem to make
up the bulk of the paintings' subject matter. And yet, despite the fantastical
nature of the images painted, the style is neither abstract nor surreal. In
fact, the level of detail approaches the photorealistic. Excruciating attention
has been paid to light, shadows, and textures; even the alien creatures are
depicted with gruesome anatomical accuracy. It is as though the artist had
worked from actual, living models rather than from what must have been a
thoroughly deranged imagination, and the overall effect is rather chilling.

One scene in particular catches your eye.

>look at scene


A group of white men in Revolutionary period clothing, taking prisoner a group
of Native Americans. The exact situation is unclear: the white men stand around
with muskets threatening, while the natives, who are chained together, file into
a fenced enclosure, as though being herded into a compound of some sort.

In the extreme background, at the far end of the enclosure, stands a large brick
building. Dark, grainy smoke billows up from two stone chimneys rising above the
structure. Leaning very close, you can just make out another group of natives
being herded into the structure by more of the white men.

You shake yourself suddenly, and realize you've been staring intently at the
painting for minutes on end. You step back and rub your tired eyes. When you
look again, however, the picture you were just examining is no longer in front
of you. None of the other paintings have moved as far as you can tell, but that
particular scene seems to have disappeared without leaving so much as a blank
space on the wall.

>south



The east wall is occupied by a beautiful antique sofa, and a large, hand-woven
rug covers the hardwood floor. The huge marble fireplace in the north wall helps
complete the impression of comfort and warmth, and for a moment or two you can
almost think of this place as somewhere you could live, as opposed to merely
somewhere others have died. The foyer lies west, and a doorway to the left of
the fireplace leads north.

Your brief sense of comfort quickly drains away, however, as you become aware of
the icy and maniacal stare emanating from the great portrait hanging over the
mantelpiece. Under the malefic gaze of those red-rimmed eyes, the most
comforting thought you can muster is that of immediate flight.

On the sofa is a family album.

>get album


You pick up the family album. It's a slim, hardbound volume in dark leather,
unadorned except for name "Verlac" embossed on the front. Glancing at the title
page, you notice two details: one, the book was self-published; and two, it was
published in 1944. So it's a good bet that Edward Verlac and his family aren't
mentioned here.

>look up Wilhelm in album


That's not a name you're familiar with. Since the family album is filled with
names you're not familiar with, you are unable to get very far looking for it.

>look up Eustacia in album


That's not a name you're familiar with. Since the family album is filled with
names you're not familiar with, you are unable to get very far looking for it.

>look up Croseus in album


That's not a name you're familiar with. Since the family album is filled with
names you're not familiar with, you are unable to get very far looking for it.

>west



Although it appears spacious from the outside, the house's interior feels
cramped and gloomy. The walls seem too close together; the ceiling is too high.
The doorways, leading in several directions, are narrow and filled with shadows,
and the stairs leading up to the second floor are steep and rickety. This is not
a house that makes you feel welcome. It is a house that makes you feel tiny and
timid, and afraid of dark places. It is a house that makes you feel alone.

Your luggage is still here, spread out all over the foyer.

>up



A narrow hallway runs east, from the top of the stairs down the length of the
house. To the north, directly opposite the stairs, is the master bedroom.

>east



The shuttered window at the end of the hall throws a gloomy rectangle of light
onto the bare wooden floor. Doorways lead north and south.

There is a cord dangling in mid-air here, right about level with your face.

>north



Whatever else their faults may have been, the Verlacs were evidently not ones to
shun the printed word. Books line the walls from floor to ceiling in this dark-
paneled, green-carpeted room, interrupted only by doorways to the east and
south. A rich, brown leather armchair sits in stately repose near the window,
with a polished brass pipe stand nearby completing the picture of some blue-
blooded country squire's literary refuge. Once again, you are struck by how
easily this place could have been the perfect home.

A beautiful pair of mahogany sliding doors stand closed to the east.

Resting on the pipe stand is a sizable volume decorated with a gilded pentagram
on its cover.

>get volume


()
You pick up . It's an old medieval tome
dated in the early 1300s, written by one Galarian Academius desChamps.

>read it


Essentially, it's a textbook on the theory and practice of magickal wards and
seals, mystic symbols inscribed on doors and containers in order to keep people
and spirits out -- or in. It's all very deliberately vague and arcane (in
addition to being written in medieval French and translated into Middle English,
making it nearly impossible to understand), the kind of thing that likely got
many a scholar burned at the stake in those days.

You are surprised to find that a page in this old and probably quite valuable
book has been folded down, as though to mark the place. The section marked
discusses various methods of opening doors that have been sealed with the image
of a pagan god. Speaking aloud the deity's true name will usually do the trick,
apparently.

>look at bookshelf


Literally hundreds of books stuff the shelves, many of them thick, cracked,
leather-bound tomes with ribbon place-holders and titles lettered in raised gold
leaf. It would take you years to peruse them all. However, one interesting title
does catch your eye. An authentic first printing of Edgar Allen Poe's
, shelved incongruously between volumes "G" and "H" of
the Encyclopedia Americana.

>get Poe


The book sticks stubbornly at first, and, thinking that it must be tightly
wedged in between the encyclopediae, you give it a fierce jerk. Suddenly, the
book slides halfway out, then pops back in with a loud "snick".

Amazingly, a section of the bookshelf slides back, revealing a hidden safe.



>examine safe


It's a stark cube of black, oily steel, fifteen inches to a side. Its only
feature is a large calibrated dial set into the front.

>turn the dial to 49


The tumblers tick quietly as you turn the dial to 49...

>turn the dial to 55


The tumblers tick quietly as you turn the dial to 55...

>turn the dial to 36


The tumblers tick quietly as you turn the dial to 36...

>look in safe


You can't see inside, since the safe is closed.

>get puzzle box and flute


You can't see any such thing.

>south



The shuttered window at the end of the hall throws a gloomy rectangle of light
onto the bare wooden floor. Doorways lead north and south.

There is a cord dangling in mid-air here, right about level with your face.

>south



This must be the children's bedroom. The bed is smaller than the one in the
master bedroom, its bright coverlet providing one of the few feeble splashes of
color in what must have been, for most of its history, a joylessly Puritan
household. A small vanity table occupies the opposite wall, and in the corner
under the window stands an ancient crib. The only exit is to the north.

A child's jewelry box sits on the corner of the vanity.

>open jewelry box


You open the jewelry box, revealing a silver locket.

>get silver locket


(slipping the keyring into the pocket of your trenchcoat to get a hand free)
You pick up the silver locket. It is oval-shaped, held shut with a tiny clasp.

>push bed


Bracing yourself, you push the bed away from the wall, revealing a ragged hole
in the wood paneling.

>look in hole


In the ragged hole is a bundle of soggy pages.

>get pages


(slipping the family album into the pocket of your trenchcoat to get a hand
free)
You pick up the bundle of soggy pages. It appears to have been someone's diary.
There must have been a leak at some time behind the wall where it was hidden,
because most of the pages are water-logged and completely illegible. However,
portions of a few entries remain untouched.



>read pages
Carefully, you turn the tattered pages. The handwriting is that of a young girl.
You idly wonder if this might have been the diary of one of Edward Verlac's
daughters -- but then you notice part of a date, just visible in the corner of
the page: 1953. This must have been written, then, several years before Edward
was born.

The entries that are legible read as follows:






[this entry dated 1957]









Nothing else is readable except for one fragmented entry near the very end of
the book, the date in the corner reading February 27, 1961:



 [a page has been torn away]


And that's all.

>north



The shuttered window at the end of the hall throws a gloomy rectangle of light
onto the bare wooden floor. Doorways lead north and south.

There is a cord dangling in mid-air here, right about level with your face.

>west



A narrow hallway runs east, from the top of the stairs down the length of the
house. To the north, directly opposite the stairs, is the master bedroom.

>down



Although it appears spacious from the outside, the house's interior feels
cramped and gloomy. The walls seem too close together; the ceiling is too high.
The doorways, leading in several directions, are narrow and filled with shadows,
and the stairs leading up to the second floor are steep and rickety. This is not
a house that makes you feel welcome. It is a house that makes you feel tiny and
timid, and afraid of dark places. It is a house that makes you feel alone.

Your luggage is still here, spread out all over the foyer.

>north



A short hallway, connecting rooms to the east, west and south.

>west



Where once pots and skillets and various utensils hung in profusion, the kitchen
walls are now merely ranks of dusty cabinets and a forest of empty hooks.
Doorways lead east and south, a small pantry lies to the northwest, and the back
door to the north leads out of the house.

>unlock door


(first taking the keyring)
(slipping  into the pocket of your
trenchcoat to get a hand free)
Taken.
You unlock the back door.

>north


(opening the back door first)


A gravel path starts here at the back door of the house, and marks a trail
nearly overgrown by weeds and briars. It disappears into the undergrowth to the
northwest, framed by crooked trees with overhanging branches that seem to form a
stunted, jagged archway into the dim recesses of the forest.

>nw


Stooping to avoid the sharp, bare twigs that snag your clothes and seem to reach
greedily for your eyes, you pick your way through the undergrowth to a small
clearing.


Old, moss-slimed tombstones, many broken off and leaning crazily like an old
man's teeth, poke up from the soft, mulchy earth. In their midst stands an
ancient marble crypt, its heavy iron door nearly obscured by thick draperies of
ivy. The trees press close around this quiet enclave of death, leaning together
over your head as if sharing secrets. A gap in the undergrowth to the southeast
reveals a narrow gravel path.

>unlock crypt


You go through all the keys on your keyring, trying each one in turn, and after
several false attempts you discover that the old-fashioned iron key fits the
lock.
You unlock the iron door.

>down


(opening the iron door first)
The faint echo of dripping water and a musty smell of decay grow stronger as you
descend.


The air is clammy and frigid, the stone walls damp and streaked with mud and
lichen. Pale, swollen roots push through cracks in the masonry. The smell of
damp corruption is almost overpowering here, though the stairs to the south lead
toward fresher air.

The walls of this chamber contain dozens of wide, shallow niches; in each niche,
a coffin.

>examine coffin


Rank upon rank of the ancient Verlac family remains are stacked away in this
hole, left to crumble and deliquesce together, merging back into the dark matter
which gave them birth. Above each niche is a nameplate indicating who was buried
here and when they died.

>look up William on nameplate


(in the nameplates)
The nameplate reads "William Verlac, b. June 22, 1954, d. September 18, 1958".
Unlike the others, William's coffin is a ramshackle affair of cheap pine, held
together with rusting nails. It's half-rotten with age and so shabbily built you
could probably open it with your bare hands.

>open coffin


Compelled by a gruesome curiosity, you dig your fingers under the soft, rotting
boards and pry up the lid. With the shriek of pulling nails and a shower of
crumbling wood, the coffin comes open, and you look inside, expecting to find a
child's tiny skeleton...

Dear God.

There's no child buried here. Instead, the coffin contains only the worm-eaten
bones of some kind of animal.

Who would have buried an animal in place of the child that should have been
interred here? And why would they do such a thing? Glumly, you look around at
the rest of the coffins, and realize that anyone who might have known the
answers to these questions is probably already buried in this room.

>get skull


(slipping the silver locket into the pocket of your trenchcoat to get a hand
free)
You pick up the animal's skull. The gruesome thing seems to leer at you with its
bleached, toothy grin.

>up


You involuntary take a deep breath of fresh air as you leave the clammy, foetid
depths of the crypt behind.


Old, moss-slimed tombstones, many broken off and leaning crazily like an old
man's teeth, poke up from the soft, mulchy earth. In their midst stands an
ancient marble crypt, its heavy iron door nearly obscured by thick draperies of
ivy. The trees press close around this quiet enclave of death, leaning together
over your head as if sharing secrets. A gap in the undergrowth to the southeast
reveals a narrow gravel path.

>se



A gravel path starts here at the back door of the house, and marks a trail
nearly overgrown by weeds and briars. It disappears into the undergrowth to the
northwest, framed by crooked trees with overhanging branches that seem to form a
stunted, jagged archway into the dim recesses of the forest.

>south



Where once pots and skillets and various utensils hung in profusion, the kitchen
walls are now merely ranks of dusty cabinets and a forest of empty hooks.
Doorways lead east and south, a small pantry lies to the northwest, and the back
door to the north leads out of the house.

>close door


You close the back door.

>lock door


You lock the back door.

>east



A short hallway, connecting rooms to the east, west and south.

>south



Although it appears spacious from the outside, the house's interior feels
cramped and gloomy. The walls seem too close together; the ceiling is too high.
The doorways, leading in several directions, are narrow and filled with shadows,
and the stairs leading up to the second floor are steep and rickety. This is not
a house that makes you feel welcome. It is a house that makes you feel tiny and
timid, and afraid of dark places. It is a house that makes you feel alone.

Your luggage is still here, spread out all over the foyer.

>unlock door


You unlock the front door.

>south


(opening the front door first)


The lane runs up from the southeast and ends at a wide clearing surrounded by
gnarled and ancient trees. A wide, curving driveway runs up to the front door of
your house, which lies north.

The front door stands open to the north.

The Verlac mansion looms before you, casting an air of menace over the clearing.

A typewritten notice has been attached to the front door.

>se



The treeline falls away on the north side of this northwest-northeast bend in
the road, giving way to a panoramic view of the Miskaton River Valley and the
grubby little town of Anchorhead nestled within it. From here you can see the
paper mill almost directly to the north; the solitary lighthouse and surrounding
ocean to the northeast; and the dilapidated stone church below you to the east.
Winding through it all is the oily black ribbon of the Miskaton, and almost
directly in the center lies the little clearing of Town Square. You can just
make out the shape of the obelisk from here.

>ne



Perhaps it is merely the effect of some unwholesome vapour rising from the murky
waters of the nearby Miskaton, but the temperature along this street seems
perceptibly cooler than normal, even for a New England autumn. Two dirt roads
lead south and southwest, into the dense woods at the edge of town.

>north



A low, irregular brick wall to the north divides this street from the steep,
mud-slick banks of the sinuous Miskaton, while a rusty iron gate provides access
to a precarious flight of stone steps leading down the bank to the water's edge.
The street bends south here, turning into a misty avenue between the trees. The
town square lies west, a vacant lot lies east.

>west



A wide expanse of uneven pavestones lies open to the sky, bordered on all sides
by the leaning, steep-roofed architecture that looms over everything in this
city. The municipal courthouse stands at the south end of the square, next to
the mouth of a dark, narrow alley to the southwest. Avenues to the west and east
lead back into the cramped and ingrown streets, while to the north lies Whateley
Bridge.

A damp newspaper lies on the curb, fluttering slightly in the wind.

In the center of the square, rising from a circular lawn of unhealthy-looking
grass and weeds, stands a strange, stone obelisk. It seems to be a monument of
some sort, although you can see no plaque or marker anywhere near it.

>get newspaper


(slipping the bundle of soggy pages into the pocket of your trenchcoat to get a
hand free)
You pick up the newspaper. It's the "Weekly Arkham Herald". Anchorhead,
apparently, is not large enough to warrant its own newspaper.

A flurry of dead leaves goes skittering along the ground, swirling past you in
the wind.

>read it


The front page story is about Jeffrey Greer, 8 years old, who was abducted from
his home at #11 Mill Town Road last night. Little Jeffrey is the latest victim
in a series of abductions that stretches back for years, one every six months or
so, and that authorities believe is the work of a single perpetrator. Local
police had hoped to prove that Edward Verlac had been behind the kidnappings,
but were unable to obtain a confession or any hard proof. Edward Verlac was
convicted of murdering his wife and two daughters, one of whom was 15 months
old, in January of this year; he was found not guilty by reason of insanity and
incarcerated in Danvers Asylum, where he remained until committing suicide last
March. This latest kidnapping, occurring after Edward's death, seems to have
cleared up any lingering suspicions that he might have been the culprit.

Anyone possessing information regarding the whereabouts of Jeffrey Greer is
strongly urged to speak to the authorities as soon as possible.

>
